---
title: 'A Dummy''s Guide To Conflict Resolution Between Two Appreciators of Beer'
date: Fri, 04 May 2007 02:13:27 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['conflict', 'night out', 'student life', 'Uncategorized']
---

Going out is great, especially to an empty night club when friends of yours are present. It immediately becomes less fun when one friend decides to enjoy the freedoms of nature on a fence whilst a police car is rolling past. At the time I was sitting in a kitchen with my back to the window when I hear the siren go off. What's the cause of this I wonder and lookout. I spot two people I know and immediately I understand what they were doing. Harmless engineering term, up to you to figure out which one. A friend standing behind me decides to yell out of the room "stop them, they're terrorists" which in itself would be a harmless joke except for bored policemen. They decided to give the guy they had interrupted when nature calls an £80 fine. That's annoying for anyone who's been fined. You know the feeling. It became more interesting when those two people came up to see me and ask whether I had caused those problems. Having a clear conscience I answered that I had not been the one to land them in trouble. Ok, who did, was the next response. This person Ok, now the situation escalated. At this point, both people knew who was responsible for what and they were willing to fight. I used all of my body strength to come between both individuals because I did not want to see a fight take place when I was a key witness in the unfolding events. No fight took place but the echauffement definitely did. I was asked to leave the flat although I had done my best to avoid a fight and everyone went their separate ways. That's definitely not what I want to have to deal with after spending so much time and effort on the dissertation. When I wake up I'll spend some more time adding the finishing touches to my dissertation before handing it in. Goodnight