---
title: 'A Stream of Conscience on Noise and Flat Hunting.'
date: Wed, 16 May 2007 22:54:16 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Chopin', 'flat hunting', 'noise', 'stream of conscience', 'university']
---

As the title indicates I've upgraded to the new version of WordPress and I'm trying it now. I'll have to see what the great features are in this version. I know that they were having some last-minute problems with tags but we'll see whether they resolved those. Aside from changing browser today I also started looking for an apartment as I am so tired of the noise made by drink fueled students. I'm not against drinking but I am against the noise they make every single day that they are at home. Why not have a bottle of wine between friends and chat for hours. Why does everyone have to lose grip on reality? Is life that terrible for them? Back to the upbeat stuff. Flat hunting as a solitary person is great for a number of reasons, firstly complete freedom. You have the freedom to live anywhere that interests you, without taking other people into consideration. Of course, I do look at everything according to tube lines and distance. The closer to the center I can be better. Another consideration, of course, is to find people whose company I enjoy living with. A good home is a perfect place from which to cope with the struggle that job hunting will be in the next few weeks and months, as they flow by. There are three flats that I am already scheduled to visit and I may look for a few more during the day tomorrow. The more I visit the more informed the decision. The first phone call is always the hardest. I was struggling so much in fact that I forgot about one flat and started sending out two or three e-mails in the hope that through the writing of applications I would clarify within my mind what it is I wanted to communicate. That served me well. Within three phone calls, I had already summoned far more courage and I'll keep looking whilst I have the time. I need to draw up a list of the things that are important to me for when I get to the flat, to make sure not to forget something that would influence my enjoyment of this new phase in my life. I've got till the second but if I've got an agreement by the second of June I'll be much happier. --I wrote this post whilst listening to Chopin. Second time in as many days that I listen to this. A change in personality or expectations? Time will decide.