---
title: 'A Typical Day Two Weeks Before Uni''s End'
date: Tue, 24 Apr 2007 10:27:07 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['a day in the life', 'final two weeks', 'random', 'student life', 'university']
---

Just put on some music and now I'll tell you about a typical day, just two weeks before the end of uni life for me. My phone is set so that it rings every morning at 9 am and the reason it gives me is "catch a flight" because I had set that particular alarm to wake me up before one of my numerous flights. It doesn't often get me out of bed, I usually snooze till about 11 am and that's when there's noise from the cleaners. I open up the laptop and I start surfing around the world wide web syncing up with what's happened whilst I was sleeping. It's not until about two hours later than I do something productive like get out of bed, take a shower, and then get on with the public phase of my day. a few times I've woken up and got straight into one of the three assignments that are due within the next three weeks. I stop working when either it's at least an hour later or I've run out knowledge and because it requires research I decide it's easier to get sidetracked by something else. Around 2 pm I go for a walk, as an excuse to listen to a podcast. I get myself what is required for a sandwich and get some ice tea. Time to relax whilst eating. Until this point there's a chance I haven't been sociable so I walk over to the uni library, it's only 5 minutes away so it's no struggle. As I arrive there I go from one friend to another, getting a little insight into how well they're doing with assignments. With certain people you find that they're halfway through the dissertation, others are finished. Some were working on their advertising module course work and others claim not to have started writing. I'm glad I have. (slight understatement) There are a few groups of people I hang around with. Sometimes I go to a venue and I film a friend's gig, as happened or I go to the SU bar (which hasn't happened for the past two weeks and won't happen before next Monday. The third option is to hang out with more friends in halls. Once I get home I do some more work, sometimes another two or three hours. I found that at one point I was so anxious and worried about my work that I couldn't go to sleep before I had progressed with my dissertation.  I'm lucky that way. My mind has become the perfect nag. I'm grateful for this. Sleep is easy, I lie down, pull the laptop screen down and see that it latches. Listen to my ipod and fall asleep.