---
title: 'An academic fox for university'
date: Tue, 10 Apr 2007 22:57:37 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['all-nighter', 'habits', 'nocturnal', 'random', 'Sleep', 'student life', 'university']
---

When you're s student normal clocks no longer have any relevance to the way you live your life. Sometimes you go to sleep three hours after the sun rose and other times you have a nap at three in the afternoon. Occasionally you sleep from ten at night till 6 am. That's extra ordinarily rare. When you're in halls this is particularly true. You've got an entire ethnic group in university that takes the university to be the same as school. They come in at 8 am and leave on the dot at 1900 hrs. That's because they're still at home and they live according to their parent's cooking schedule. They love to play during the day. Most of the people I know are of the night disposition. They will party all night and pull all-nighters to get work done rather than get up early in the morning to do things the way non-students do. It's a great way of life. You might not see the sun in winter but in Summer there's a chance you'll be sitting in the sun soaking in the rays whilst office workers are slaving away. It doesn't matter, in three to four years most students will experience the same so it's only a question of time. Anyway, the point of this post is that I was leaving the library after doing some work on my dissertation when I spotted an orange fox lurking around. it was looking for food and that's not hard to find where students have been. I thought that I should scare it off by hissing and stamping my foot but it remained oblivious. I decided to walk up the stairs and turned around. It was heading towards the turnstiles to get into university. Did I meet one of the rare academic foxes in North West London? Let's see whether I see it at my graduation. How many of you have had such encounters with nocturnal creatures?