---
title: 'Archery with the HTC Vive'
date: Wed, 11 May 2016 07:42:18 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['archery', 'game', 'htc vive', 'virtual reality', 'workout']
---

Virtual Reality is a great opportunity to practice skills and keep fit at the same time. It's fun to watch people play these immersive games and get carried away. In [Holopoint](http://store.steampowered.com/app/457960/) you're an archer shooting at targets and they shoot back at you. You need to dodge out of the way to avoid being hit. At first you're given enough time to shoot and avoid the arrows but as you progress in the game you need to react faster and dodge more arrows. From level 10 onwards you're shooting at Samurai warriors and dodging arrows from boxes. The game looks both fun and physical. This game looks as though it could be addictive. If I had an HTC Vive I think I would pull the cable so that it is hanging from the ceiling rather than from the headset down my back and on to the floor. From my experience of the HTC Vive in Crans Montana and from the comments he makes during the video it seems logical to get the cable out of the way. It would be a shame to trip and break the device or injure yourself. The beauty of VR is that the graphics don't need to be photo realistic for the application to be fun. As with [Altspace](http://altvr.com/) you're immersed in an environment and you know that you can interact with objects and talk with people in other programs. At first I was unsure about socialising via Virtual reality but after experiencing it I changed my mind. You are in a virtual environment and you can play with objects and move towards and away from groups. A friend was playing basketball in [Altspace](http://altvr.com/) and I had fun piling mugs of beer until they fell to the floor. Virtual reality is as much about the environment as it is about having fun. The ability to play in a virtual environment is entertaining. I look forward to seeing how these environments progress and become more realistic. I was thinking about how sailing and other simulators would be possible with such technology. That would be a lot of fun. It would make a change from car driving and flying games.