---
title: 'Attack on Titan - The Jack Septic eye play-throughs'
date: Mon, 12 Sep 2016 16:24:20 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Attack on Titan', 'gameplay', 'reviews', 'youtube']
---

One of my favourite play through series at the moment is Attack on Titan by Jack Septic Eye. I haven't watched the manga series so I don't know the context of the series. I like this series because I find the story okay and I like the idea of swinging around between buildings and through an entire city. When I hear of Titans I think of Greek mythology rather than Japanese Mangas. I would expect it to be about Greek gods, Titans and of course humans. In this case we're transported to a city that has three layers of walls around it. When the Titans are hungry they break through the walls and eat the humans. The Humans were forced to retreat from the outer wall and part of the city to the inner walls. Some people are trained to fight. They have grappling hooks, boosters and swords. Using the grappling hooks they can move from one part of the city to the other quickly. With their blades they can attack the titans and subjugate them. The game starts with a training session in some woods. When they are qualified they can protect their part of the city. They can attack the titans by amputating their legs and arms before getting the nape of the neck of these titans. When the titans are killed they vanish. There are small, medium and large titans. I find the episodes fun to watch because I like the idea of flying across a city using grappling hooks. It reminds me of Assassin's Creed but with greek mythology and manga lore. This isn't the type of game that I would play but it is fun to watch. It provides for a nice moment of escapism, to forget about reality and daydream. Jack has produced five episodes so far. Two and a half million out of twelve million subscribers have watched at least the first episode. Will you be one more viewer?