---
title: 'A Climbing Two year Old'
date: Wed, 24 Aug 2016 20:30:46 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Climbing', 'observation', 'youtube']
---

A Climbing two year old is ordinary. They try to climb on to chairs, they climb to stand up. They climb up the stairs and the swings. What is less ordinary is for a two year old to rock climb like a grown up. As I watch the video below what inspires me the most is to see such a young human climb like a grown up. She learned by watching others and by being given the opportunity to practice at home and in climbing gyms. This video makes me happy because it is nice to see such a young person learn to climb. If I had been given the support and opportunity, and if the sport had been more evolved, then I too would have started climbing at a young age. I used to climb trees, climb on to garage roofs and occasionally climb rocks from which I could eventually get down. I had to wait until I was more than 20 years old before I could climb my first "dalle". This child was given access to that world from a very young age. Her first memory will surely be of climbing. To make this story news worthy they had to add conflict of course. They had to speak about how some people who watch this think that it is dangerous to allow a child to climb. As the mother said "When she climbs in the gym we are watching her and she has 19 inch thick matts to fall on. The playground and the street are more dangerous". They go on to say that she face planted on a street. Every single child does that. That's the beauty of being a child. You're bound to fall, cry, be picked up by your parents, and then a few minutes later start playing again. Climbing when you're with the right people is no different. When and if I have children I will teach them about snowboarding and rock climbing and snorkelling. I want to pass on my passions. I want them to be the next generation of sports enthusiasts.