---
title: 'Climbing Virtual Reality, Uniform and Grip'
date: Wed, 17 Aug 2016 14:20:09 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['360 video', 'climbing virtual reality', 'Uncategorized', 'virtual reality']
---

Climbing Virtual Reality tuition is an interesting idea. Learning to climb is fun because it is a physical and intellectual challenge. The first step is to familiarise yourself with the sensations of climbing and learning to see where foot holds are and where hand holds are. When you begin the hand holds are easy to find and hold on to but as you progress and attempt more challenging routes you need to develop finger strength to hold on to those holds. Climbing Virtual Reality tuition is an interesting idea. In some cases though finger strength is not the only challenge. You also need to learn to read the route and to know which hand to hold a hand hold with, which foot to use on a foot hold and how to reach the next hold. You can learn through trial and error which is fun or you can climb other routes and wait until someone who knows the route that has you flummoxed decides to climb that route. Virtual reality Goggles are an alternative way of learning how to climb a route. In the example provided in the video above [Grip](http://uniform.net/blog/april-2016/grip/) by [Uniform](http://uniform.net/) provides climbers with an alternative. In their example they speak about [Shauna coxsey](http://www.shaunacoxsey.co.uk/) participating in the project and allowing people to film her as she is coached on how to climb a route. In other locations it could just as easily be the route setters. It's interesting to see such a project because the question we often hear people ask is "How did you climb that route" and the answer is often "I don't remember". With this technology it would be easy to provide people with guidance for the routes they find more challenging. It is a new and immersive form of tuition which could help people progress and learn climbing skills more efficiently and within a shorter amount of time.