---
title: 'Digitalshadowcaster (TM)'
date: Fri, 25 Jan 2008 17:06:04 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['digitalshadowcaster', 'London', 'tech related']
---

As the rate of creation of content increases so does the challenge of following what was done by whom and that's where [digitalshadowcaster](http://www.digitalmediavalues.com) (TM). The idea is interesting to content producers.   _Thus, the life cycle of an object may “Cast” a “Digital Shadow” (DS) that captures real time key information events and actions.  A given DS allows for the ordered delivery of proprietary services managed over a predictable and transparent network of Object Based Representations in Object to Object (O2O) relationships derived form Actions and Events performed on the objects by agents with specified Roles._ In plain English they're going to make it so that a central server keeps track of the changes you apply to media files are tracked and easier to deal with. It would track events, rights managment, object search, stats, billing and more. The flow was described as Create, adapt, product, distribute. In other words this technology would be part of every step of the process and here's an example of it's implementation. If you're a content producer and you're making a documentary your budget isn't high therefore it would make sense that you want well established people to help you. As a result of a personality liking what you are up to they may give you access to some footage or music. For this project it's cheap but as your reputation grows so the managment of those rights and the relationship can change, both in billing and in terms of restrictions. It makes the use of media more flexible. With more content appearing so the tracking issues become more complicated, hence the need for a new system of tracking to keep everything in order.