---
title: 'Don''t make me sign up to login, and use Disqus so I can leave comments.'
date: Sat, 14 Feb 2009 08:38:01 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

I'm active on the web, spending thousands of hours a year connected to the web. As a result I have to log into a lot of sites often. I don't like logging in though. That's why I would love for big name publishers like the WSJ, NYTimes and others to sign an aggrement with Facebook so that I may log into their service without having to remember my account details. It would actually serve them better. Facebook knows who my friends are, where I studied, what stories I recommend and in some cases why. It's also a reflection of the times that are coming. I went on a blog commenting spree last week and almost all blogs ask for three things, name, e-mail and website url. When I have to input the data I think twice about leaving a comment, and may recommend the story and write a comment in friendfeed instead. Too bad the publisher loses that bit of interactivity. For those publishers that want me to subscribe to your website you can forget it. There's no way I'm going to subscribe to a website I visit less than once a month. It's just too much effort and too much additional information to remember. What I love are blogs that use Disqus. That's because when I leave a comment I can find them all in one place at the end of the day. If someone answers my comment then I can see what they wrote. It means it's an automated attention solution. Anything where I can spend time looking at new content is appreciated. It's especially true now that web forums have become extro verted rather than introverted. You've probably noticed it too. How many forums are you still part of? In my case none. I prefer the friendfeed and feedly method of doing things, where I actively seek information and get it sent to a central point from which other people converge to comment, and head back out once they're done. I love the web in it's current form as a result.