---
title: 'Friendfeed has a great future'
date: Thu, 12 Feb 2009 19:50:25 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['feedly', 'friendfeed', 'social media', 'twitter']
---

I really like [Friendfeed](http://www.friendfeed.com) and what it's becoming. What I love is how easy it is to follow many people and converse with them about everything they share. It's the future of web sharing but it may take several months for people to move towards it. There are a number of things I love. First of all it aggregates your live stream in one place, so anyone who has an interest in you can share what they like about your work and you can follow this conversation. The second aspect that makes it so strong is that you can do the same for them. You can select those you think are thought leaders and follow everything they do and say. It's mature, it's like a web forum but grown up in that it branches out to blogs, twitter, plurk, youtube and flickr to name but a few networks. That's just a small part of what makes it so interesting. Something else that makes this website and service interesting is the level and depth that conversations can take. If you get a few people talking together you get a debate and a dialogue, or conversation going. This contributes to the continuation of the discussion. What's more is that it's less name based. You can see what FOAF (Friends of a friend) are discussing and joining in. That's not where it stops though. The rooms, albeit a little geeky for now will be a great place for people to come and discuss new topics, from political elections to festive events where they live and more. It's specially designed for this. Look at the [Davos room](http://friendfeed.com/rooms/davos) for example. RSS feeds from a variety of sources are aggregated into one place for easy digestion, especially when using the realtime feed option. The biggest weakness of the site at the moment is user numbers. With just a few hundred passionate users the discussion means the creation of a strong community bond that has long since dissapeared (or at least changed) for Twitter. Add [Feedly](http://www.feedly.com) to this and you've got one of the most interesting services yet to come out. Feedly makes it easy to share your content to many social networking websites, of which friendfeed and Google Reader are part. Read your google reader items in feedly, share them, add notes and more. It's all synced from one place and it's not website specific. You don't need to be on the feedly website to use it. Just add the plugin and it works. I look forward to welcoming you there.