---
title: 'From One Culture To Another Through Podcasting'
date: Sun, 22 Apr 2007 02:29:44 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['dolby', 'Mac Break Weekly', 'Meet The Press', 'podcasts', 'tech related', 'Uncategorized', 'university']
---

At the moment I'm listening to a lot of podcasts. Probably 5-10 a day on average. I go through one collection of podcasts and once that one is finished I move onto another. As a result of this, the culture of those I am listening to is sinking through. Yesterday I listened to four or five of NBC's meet the press and I found them interesting. I wasn't always paying attention to what they were saying but it did make a change. I recently listened to the whole of the Net@night series and the previous series on the RSS feed as well. As a result, I've learned quite a bit about new technology. It's been fun. It's about web 2.0 and how everything is "innovative" although ten years ago people were doing the same it was called differently. It's all O'reilly's(sp?) fault. Today I listened to something quite interesting. It's the Mac break weekly recorded in Dolby headphone surround or some similar tech. It's interesting because it does paint an auditory landscape. Leo Laporte was in front whilst the girls on that podcast, Justine and Kendra were to the right, and the guests, whilst two others were to the left. Walking to the shops with that sound was a little disorienting at first but I grew used to it and it's more fun. I want to hear more podcasts recorded with that technology. I am going through a phase of cultural assimilation. I watch and listen to all these podcasts that are coming from the US and as a result, I'm starting to absorb the culture. I'm telling myself that I should move to SFO where municipal wifi is a reality rather than a dream. We'll see what I do once university is finished and I have the rest of my life in front of me. We may find that the work experience module teaches me to think more creatively about getting a job. If it does then it's truly worth writing up tomorrow when I get up. I'm rambling so I'll leave you to wait for the next post. Ciao ciao