---
title: 'I bought an Iphone because my N97 crashed too much'
date: Sun, 20 Dec 2009 12:34:14 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['iphone 3gs', 'Uncategorized']
---

This is an about face for me. As an appreciator of the latest technology I always want to have the latest technology but I can't always justify the cost. As a result of this appreciation of technology so I have gone through a number of devices. As a child losing devices is a good excuse to buy a new one. As a grown up though desire is enough. I really like the n97 and what it could be but it didn't live up to my expectations. I spend a lot of time participating in social media, whether blogging, commenting, seesmicing or tweeting. Data plans are cheaper. Apple has demonstrated that people want applications on their mobile device. This has led the mobile landscape to move away from simple telephony. As a result the devices have had to evolve. Bigger screens are needed, batteries with more capacity are needed too. As a result of this new market segment you have many operating systems and more and more choice. That choice does come at a cost. When using both the e51 and the n97 in paralel, one for work and the other for pleasure I found that I was using the e51, a mid range device rather than the n97 because it was easier to use, and more reliable. That changed my focus. Having the latest alternative was fun, but it wasn't reliable. It's only after a few weeks of not being able to stop the alarm and a few missed calls, because the device froze that I wanted to change to the next latest thing. I was thinking of the n900 that uses maemo as my next device. Two things stopped me. Firstly reliability, what's the point of buying a device that costs a lot but may not perform as you want it to perform. The second is the maturity of the third party applications. If you get maemo how hard will it be to install new applications and more importantly how much choice is there? Is it worth waiting another three or four months to get that device only to find that it doesn't work? That's why I've gone to the Iphone 3G S. It's the more mature phone. It is well settled into the market, most people find it easy to use an best of all it has a great diversity of applications. It is also reliable. In a year or two we'll see which devices are out, as well as which are the most reliable. At that point I may switch to another OS. I'd rather wait for Maemo and S60v5 to become more reliable before spending yet more money.