---
title: 'Mobile video streaming and the future of video sharing'
date: Mon, 16 Jun 2008 20:58:42 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Flixwagon', 'livecast. kyte', 'mobile streaming', 'N95', 'tech related']
---

Two years ago we had the World cup and with that came hundreds of videos shot in cities around the world of people celebrating soccer (or football as a sport). At the time everyone would go out with their video camera, record the footage, wait till they got home, capture it and share via a number of sharing sites. The problem with this is that it's both slow and tedious. It takes too much time and organisation to do. That's where a new generation of mobile video streaming devices come in. Some applications like Qik and Bambuser are limited to people with cheap data rates via their mobile operators. As a result their services are not so interesting. What was missing from the market place were mobile video streaming services that would allow the content creator to backup the video to their mobile device before sharing it either over the air via 3g networks or wifi. Three services allow for this Kyte, which Scoble has talked about recenty, Flixwagon which I have talked about recently and then Livecast. Each of these video services allows you to save the video as you're streaming. Kyte is interesting because it allows for you to share pictures, video, polls and audio from one application. Flixwagon is interesting because it allows you to compile all the metadata you want to have included with the video before you stream. It allows you to categorise it within set niches, then add keywords to make finding the video easier. Livecast is the most recent one I've tested (just a few minutes ago) and this one allows you to choose how much bandwidth you want to use, from just 24kb to 160kb. It gives you a stream limit of 2 gigabytes and storage of 100 megabytes... (if I remember right.) It differentiates itself with the stream from file option. You can record a number of videos on your phone and choose to send them at another time. It works well enough Video streaming is an easy way of sharing video with your friends without the need for a computer. As a result we should expect quite a bit more coverage of live events from the audience's point of view, not just big budget broadcasters. This is a little rambling but it's fun to see what's available.