---
title: 'MobileRSS for the Iphone'
date: Mon, 08 Feb 2010 13:04:54 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['google reader', 'iPhone', 'MobileRss', 'Uncategorized']
---

When you like to control the information that is available to you through feedreaders the one that I have found most useful is google reader. It allows you to navigate using keyboard shortcut keys rather than the mouse. As a result you are able to navigate more effectively through the sometimes hundreds of posts. For a while now, about three years, I've been looking for an app that gives us the convenience of google reader whilst on mobile devices. For a while I had the N95 and ipod touch, the ipod touch and the miniS and now the Iphone and N97. The problem I kept having is with keeping everything up to date on all the devices. I didn't want to read through twenty articles on a mobile device only to have to wade through the same articles a second time when I arrived back at the main computer I use for content processing. That's where MobileRSS for the Iphone and ipod touch comes into it's own. It is a simple, intuitive way to go through your google reader feeds whilst mobile. Select the view you want, whether using "show new" or "show all". Show all will give you several thousand posts along with all the key words you've added, something that is not so easy to manage. The "Show new" tab however is great. When I pick up the phone and update all my feeds it gives me all of the new posts in an easy to process format. I have the option to view all feeds if I desire or to see each feed one at a time. As you know some information sources like to post dozens of posts a day whilst others like to post just one or two a day. Those that post once or twice a day are usually the first ones I'll read. This is because they're more specialised, more thought out posts. As a result they're more relevant. There are two three ways to navigate through the content. The first is by selecting the list view. You see the headlines you want to read. In the second view you can read article by article and click the up or down icons to get to the previous or next posts. You can also drag the article from the one you're reading to the next one. This speeds up the process by minimising the number of button presses. When I am reading each article I can add notes, keep unread, star, share or even send it to to a number of other places. As a result I can share the articles I find of interest according to the way I think other people prefer to share. The options for sharing are email/facebook/twitter/readitlater/instapaper and delicious. This means that I can share content within seconds, rather than minutes, anywhere I am, whether in a traffic jam or waiting to pay for the day's shopping. Another advantage is that it's always on. Whether I have wifi or 3g I have access to all of the latest articles. I'd recommend using it. See whether it makes information gathering and sharing easier for you too. [More information](http://www.nibirutech.com/product_MR.html)