---
title: 'The Moléson VF with the Narrative Clip 2'
date: Wed, 06 Jul 2016 16:38:36 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['lifestream', 'Real Time Web', 'Rock climbing', 'Swiss walks', 'tech related', 'Via Ferrata']
---

The Narrative Clip 2 is a specialist camera that can be programmed to take photos at regular intervals whilst you enjoy activities. This is sometimes referred to as life logging. The idea is that you wear the camera either on clothing or place it somewhere where it can capture the passage of time. \[gallery columns="4" ids="3063,3064,3065,3066,3067,3068,3069,3071,3072,3073,3075,3076"\] For this event the camera was worn around my neck and took pictures throughout the activity. As you can see from the last image I had the Ricoh Theta S on a monopod and the Sony Xperia Z5 compact for other pictures. You do not see that I had a fourth camera with a 30 times optical zoom. The camera took over four hundred images during this event and I chose just a few. I avoid sharing images of people unless I have their informed consent. I share the images that best represent the pleasant moments. If I took the time I could rotate this camera to be horizontal and I could capture daily timelapses. Every time I go for a bike ride or a hike it would capture regular images. The camera has enough battery power and you can keep the camera in your pocket until you want to start logging the event. When the event is finished you can place the camera back in to your pocket and head home for example. An improvement which I have recently noticed is that when you put the camera to charge it can automatically upload the day's images to the [narrativeapp](https://narrativeapp.com) website and you can then select what you want to share. As cameras get smaller and more portable and as they become more specialised so we have an opportunity to get different types of images. One is for time lapses, the other has a powerful zoom, the third allows us to capture spherical images and the fourth is practical for sharing to social media.