---
title: 'Mophie Air'
date: Sat, 23 Jan 2010 14:09:57 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['iPhone', 'mophie', 'mophie air', 'Uncategorized']
---

I tend to play a lot with my new phone as a result of which the battery depletse in a short lapse of time. If I'm by a power source then that doesn't matter because recharging the phone is easy. There are other cases where recharging is a hassle.  That's part of the excuse I used for getting a [mophie air](http://www.mophie.com/Juice-Pack-3G-3GS-p/1058_jp-ip3g-blk.htm) cover for the phone. Last night I was at a party and whilst talking to one person I found out that their phone battery was dead so I removed the cover from my phone and lent the external battery/charger/iphone cover to that person. As a result as the party progressed that person wasn't tethered to a wall waiting for the phone to charge. She had full mobility. The cover does not recharge the phone fully. Instead it provides you with between seventy to eighty percent of the charge you would normally have. That's enough to get you home comfortably. In other situations though the back can be used as an external battery. That is to say that rather than recharging your phone it behaves like a primary battery. The cover drains itself of power before the Iphone battery is depleted, therefore making sure that you can have around twice the normal autonomy of such a device. This could be interesting when the device is used on a hike for example. There are two weaknesses to the mophie that I would like to see rectified. The first is for when you're using the mophie as a cover but haven't used the cover's battery. If you plug it in it will automatically start recharging the battery rather than going straight to recharge the battery. As a result I prefer to remove the cover when it is just the phone battery that needs recharging. The second problem is the amount of time it takes when you want to recharge the device both by itself and with the phone already in the case. It's better when you're recharging both at the same to do it over night.