---
title: 'Nanox,TRP files and Mpeg streamclip'
date: Wed, 29 Apr 2009 18:22:00 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Nanox', 'satellite', 'TRP', 'Uncategorized']
---

Satellite television broadcasting is an interesting field to looik into, especially now that there are thousands of channels available on a multitude of satellites. Over the past two days I have been learning about the Nanox HDTV recording device. What I like about using the Nanox receiver is the ability to see stream information, what format is being broadcast as well as resolution. What's interesting is that some satellite channels are broadcasting at full HD quality whilst others are broadcasting at no more than 576\*352 for example. You get the bit rate information too. Now that I've lost most people here's the part I like. You can attach any USB hard disk to the device and record programs off the television. This is particularly interesting if there's a documentary you intended to watch but weren't around to watch it. It can record two simultaneous streams at once. TRP files are a compressed file format that are ideal for storage. They're not recognised by quicktime but if you download mpeg streamclip then you can convert this file format to any file format you desire. If you record a number of files with the satellite receiver with mpeg streamclip you can batch encode a number of files at once. This means that a spare computer can do the rendering without you having to be there. If there is an EPG available for the channel you are watching you can schedule the receiver to record the program. In other situations you can start a recording and it will ask whether to stop recording at the end of the scheduled program. If there is no EPG the process is manual to start a recording but you can select how long you want to record for. It's a shame that you need to go into the menu to set the record duration however.