---
title: 'Noise and Liveable Flats'
date: Sun, 13 May 2007 00:57:49 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['flat hunting', 'future plans', 'noise pollution', 'Sleep', 'sleep deprivation', 'university']
---

It's only 130am therefore it's not that late but I want to sleep and there is something that has been hindering this effort particularly strongly for the past three nights. Drunken people with no pitch or tone control when singing using their lungs and voice projection to full pelt. It's not that I'm against partying but I do believe in making noise during the day or away from habitations during the day. I would love to see the same thing happen in London as in Switzerland. Laws that forbid noise after 10pm. On a second note here are ways future halls and student accomodation may be improved to make a full night of sleep possible. 1. Cupboards that don't slam. When you're living by a kitchen one of the most annoying sounds is hearing others close cupboards 2. Solid doors that don't bang. The main door to the complex is loud. Every time it closes you hear it. The doors to the flat make noise when you open them. 3. Silent locks. The sound of a key pulling the latch is loud when background sounds are inexistent 4. Soundproofed walls. being able to hear what's going on next door is not always pleasant. 5. Proper windows. When you've got idiots outside yelling at other idiots you'll hear the entire conversation. That's not what you want. 6. A system of fines rather than bans. People get far more annoyed and take far more seriously a financial loss than a ban.  With a ban you may end up in a nice house or flat where you live in better conditions. 7. Smart fire alarms. You've got security so if a fire is activated check the area with a heat camera. If there's nothing out of the ordinary just go and clear the alarm after a visual check 8. Free high quality headphones. Rather than have loud music blearing from every room why not provide students with nice headphones which they can use to hear their music in dolby digital surround sound... 9. A noise fuse. The idea behind this device is simple. If you exceed a certain noise level all power is cut to the area where the noise levels are too high. In so doing disturbances would be far more limited. 10.  Quiet furniture. When you've got a concrete floor with no padding and chairs with no padding any shift of the furniture results in a lot of noise. Provide a quiet surface and life may be livable. I'm tired of other people's noise. I'd love for them to become reasonable and start being quiet. Once every two weeks is fine, but not every single day. Not all of us enjoy drinking at night and doing nothing during the day. Not all of us appreciate bad singing either. Anyway worst case scenario I have another two weeks without sleep. Best case scenario. New flat within a few days.