---
title: 'A Nonverbal Autism Video Interview'
date: Tue, 19 Jul 2016 09:45:03 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['autism', 'interview', 'nonverbal', 'short film', 'social conscience', 'tech related', 'Video', 'youtube']
---

I saw Horyou share a link to [Speechless with Carly Fleischmann](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeKKQlMB1NeOLN31_CSJFRQ). This is a Nonverbal Autism Video Interview carried out via typed words on a tablet.  The text is read out electronically. The interview is warm and convivial. It stands out because it does not use a fast talking or energetic host. The interviewer does not talk, in the conventional sense. They could easily have inter-titles rather than synthesised voice. It is because they show the challenge of this interview that it is interesting. It shows that charismatic fast talkers are not the only people with an opportunity to interview artists. It shows that given the right circumstances anyone can interview artists and that desire and interest are required but that solutions can be found for other challenges. It opens up the world to a diversity of people. Imagine video interviews in sign language for example. There is no reason for a specialist channel not to take on this challenge, to fill this niche. Three things make this possible: Video production costs have gone down so it is easy to find the budget to record such an interview, technology makes communication for nonverbal people much simpler and finally Youtube makes content distribution to an audience easy. This video has three and a half million views. I will find more videos like this. I believe that they play an important role in modern society where we believe that everyone should be treated equally, to have equal opportunities. It is too easy to idealise the charismatic radio presenter who has a way with words and forget that charisma can be found in people's intellect. You see it through the laughter in the interview, you see it in the way the interviewee is so relaxed. It's a shame that there is just one interview. Imagine it as a weekly show.