---
title: 'Not Enough Time'
date: Wed, 18 Jul 2007 21:26:56 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['archive footage', 'editing', 'facebook', 'fun', 'memories', 'nostalgia', 'sharing', 'video archive']
---

As I went through my video archive I've found a lot of good videos. As a result of this, I've been reminded of many moments and memories. There are a few people I've seen frequently since the shooting of the footage whilst others have not been present for months or years in some cases. I love watching this footage and I can't help but want to upload the videos to Facebook. It's not that I particularly like the video interface on Facebook but rather it's easy to do with the people bothering to look at them. The first video I uploaded to the web was of the Crete graduation back in 2000 but at the time no one would watch them. Finally, technology has come to a point where sharing is easier. I've uploaded three clips and am in the process of uploading the fourth clip now. One or two are of a fashion show, another one is of a snowball fight and the last is of some friends dancing. These videos are tame compared to others I have. It's part of contemporary life, that it is recorded. How many times are you photographed by tourists as you walk through London? How many times have you been filmed during parties that you may have forgotten.Â  What about those conversations? I don't live in the past. I live in the present and I love to film. I love to watch a scene and film it from many angles. I love to capture conversations without the people noticing so that a few years later we may laugh as we view them. Friends acting in plays or performing in various ceremonies are probably the best but parties are good too. Especially when the video is of the cameraman (in other words me) as he is distracted by something.  It's amusing footage. Some of it my friends will see, some of it will be archived and preserved for later.