---
title: 'On a night at Swankey''s'
date: Tue, 27 Mar 2007 10:33:15 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['dissertation', 'parties', 'socialising', 'student life', 'university', 'university']
---

Having the dissertation hanging over me is unpleasant. I often spend a few hours a day doing research which is divided between books and documentary films. Over time I organised all these ideas and I'm ready to start writing. I want to finish the first draft by Saturday. i.e. the day before april fool's On Saturday I went out to four parties. The first party was a nice mauritian buffet to celebrate a friend turning 25 and joining the generation old club. I was there for two or three hours before moving on. The second party was a small affair although the participants were not university students therefore I left for the next venue. It was the SU bar, busy on a Saturday night, something which is not that normal. It's usually deserted but due to a person having their birthday there it was better. The fourth party was the best part. Everyone from the bar got into 7-10 taxies and headed down to a house party. The house is in the middle of the suburbs, has two living rooms although one of these is half kitchen/half living room. Maybe it'd be called a dining room. Many friends were there and there was a live dj to add to the ambiance. At the beginning there was no sound because they were lacking a cable or two to plug the speakers in. The issue was quickly resolved and sound began. The party would involve the taking of 100 pictures, chatting to many people about many things. One of these people was glad to practice her french. Others shared drinks and such. Saturday started around 7pm and ended 12hrs later with me walking a road I had walked many many times in the past. It was a really good night and I hope to have more like it. Last night was tame in contrast