---
title: 'On dissapointment'
date: Mon, 15 Jan 2007 16:23:01 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['barred', 'dissertation', 'documentary', 'random', 'student life', 'university']
---

Student unions are one of the best places to meet people and make new contacts. It's a place where drinks are cheap and normal rules no longer apply. At least that's what they'd have you believe. The undercroft is one of the worst student bars in the United Kingdom for a number of reasons, firstly the prices, highest in the UK, secondly the location, a basement with rats scurrying about. thirdly poor management, the reason for which many of the staff quit the job. For over two months now I've been unable to go due to the management, not the staff, taking a dislike to me. I went in today, not planning to get anything to drink because a friend wanted to drop down. The manager took a minute or two before he asked me to leave. I had not had the time to do anything of any sort. I'm disappointed because tonight is the first night that everyone is back from holiday and I can't go to be with those I've studied and had fun with for two years. I enjoyed the convenience of that bar being so close. After tonight the bar is so empty there is no reason to go anyway but tonight could have been different. On the positive side, I've just started my six-day weekend and one friend in the same year is wondering what to do to occupy all our free time. Shall we find work, shall we live at home and commute only for the lessons? Shall we spend three or four days a week on dissertation work? I think so. I need to find work. I need to carry out phase two of the research, interviews, and discussion groups before starting phase three, the first draft, and subsequent copies. Last night I watched the Nile DVD and it's interesting to see how different it is. It's an anthropological documentary, taking time to speak first about the geography of the place, secondly about the people and thirdly about how they're affecting the environment. It's an interesting documentary that lasts about 100 minutes, 50 minutes per part. Already I've written notes about it and I'm getting closer to seeing how it'll fit in as one of the case examples for what I'm talking about. I still need to read through the two dissertations I have. It's going to be interesting to have so much time to work on one project. A documentary about the differences and similarities between the two documentary genre. Hours of fun as long as I organise my time so well as not to feel any pressure.