---
title: 'On the Importance of understanding what you are writing about'
date: Tue, 27 Nov 2007 13:06:36 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['observation', 'Post-university life', 'random', 'social media', 'social networking', 'tech related']
---

Nick O'Neill needs to do more research. Most of what he writes is speculative based on two or three months of research rather than sociological research. He goes after trends and gut feelings. As a result whilst his content is interesting to keep a track of it's not relevant to the type of content I am looking for. Podcasters and social media people need to take a more academic approach to their writing. I've found myself angry with what Leo laporte and other podcasters have said. Some of them are really pro certain technologies and boasting about their advantages without taking a media tech and society view. What I mean by this is that technology and communication are cyclical. What was really common in older media is going to become common in new media as more people come to use it. Radio and letter writing are what podcasting and e-mail are to their contemporary period. It's the same with the iphones being bricked. There was such an outcry within the early adopter crowd that you'd think technology has never evolved. We all know that more apps would be created for the Ipod touch and iphone for example. It's interesting to see how things are evolving and how by looking at previous technological trends we can see how the future will take place. Those who write about technology need to have a media studies background for a proper, well based understanding of their topic of conversation. If you want historical information you want to find professors and their PhD thesis, the same should be true about technological writing.