---
title: 'On why I will never spend my own money to buy an Apple laptop again.'
date: Fri, 28 Aug 2009 07:50:19 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

There is a known issue with the Nvidia 8600 video card. That issue is that the card fails faster than average. There are two common problems with this video card. The first is that the screen is just messed up. That's not the issue I have. The issue I am having with the macbook pro is that the screen just goes dead. The failure rate is around once per year. It failed a year ago. It's failed again just 6 days ago and it's going to fail again in a year's time around this time. At that point it will no longer be under guarantee. I know that hardware fails I've had twenty or more electronic devices fail over the years. I don't mind because most of the time the devices are cheap and replacing is not an issue. With the macbook pro it's different. This is a professional machine. It costs 2000CHF and more per machine. When this machine fails you have a serious investment to think about. Are you going to spend another 2-4000 CHF on another machine? Yes, if the after sale service is good. No if it's not. When the first video card failed it took over a month to get the machine fixed. No replacement machine was provided. As a result for over a month I relied on other technology. Now imagine if I had needed my machine for video projects during that period. Now we get to this year. My machine failed six days ago and I have still not had an opportunity to get it fixed. I went to the apple store this morning to see whether they could take it in and get it repaired and I was told that I have to go to the website. I know this but the website showed that option as grayed out. I was told that there was no possibility to see them until Monday. I don't have time to go there on Monday because their bureaucracy does not adapt to my needs. The question is how many more weeks will I be without that laptop. The result of this experience is a simple one. Whilst I love spending money on hardware nothing that I have seen encourages me to buy another piece of Apple hardware. Why should I spend 4000CHF for a professional machine that could take up to a month to replace. If my primary activity was as a freelance editor then I would have no choice. As things stand I am working full time for a good company and having an Apple computer is a luxury rather than a necessity. This means I will never again buy an apple laptop again. They need to learn something about customer care before I come back.