---
title: 'Over 400 views of the Sandstorm video'
date: Thu, 15 Feb 2007 00:06:53 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['bandwidth', 'facebook', 'flashmob', 'random', 'silent disco', 'university', 'Video', 'youtube']
---

I've just checked the number of hits on the Silent disco hits and it's now up to over four hundred views. That's a nice amount. I'm quite happy with this number because it's from my website rather than another source. I've been posting videos on the web for many years and I've seen many projects start and fail and others expand. It used to be that websites would have just 5 megabytes and websites would be html based. We're in web 2.0 now and it's normal for me to download over a gig of data per day when I'm at home. Some people say that video on the web is going to cause problems, that there are bottle necks and that's it's not built for live video. That's because they're new to the web and think they're gurus after just two years of daily use. I remember when it was the 56k modems and use was paid per minute. I remember when short text pages would take a while to load. I remember when chatrooms did not require you to create a profile which everyone could see. Where everything was fleeting, as bars are. You'd see hundreds of people but you had to converse with them. ASL used to be a popular question Today there's no need. Just click on the username and you find out everything about them that they want you to know, age, sex location, websites, groups they like and more. For the past few weeks I've become really familiar with facebook and how powerfull a tool it is. I love it. It's great because when you're out meeting people you often get to meet up to 20 people in one night sometimes and there's no way you're going to remember them. Ragweek is an example of them. Too many faces. Not enough personal detail for the name to stick in my mind. Facebook means that I go online and I can review the night, see pictures of new friends and learn a little more about them. When I was at the silent disco there are a few people I notice in quite a few shots and by posting pictures online they've presented their identity. They are no longer nameless faces that shall remain irrelevant to my life. They seek each other out and tag themselves in video frames I've posted. In so doing their friends can see them. They enjoy it. It's not a stalker medium. it's about the McLuhanist global village. It's about the extension and enhancment of social interaction. I was doing some research for an essay about technological determinism yesterday which explains the use of such terms. When McLuhan talked about the medium as the message he talked about the media as a thing which acts as an extension. Imagine you go out and meet someone and you get their name and phone number. The phone number is great because you can talk to them live with no difficulty. A facebook account is greater because it allows you to understand their personality, their likes and dislikes and more. It's a way for people to embelish on spontaneous meetings. It's the global village that McLuhanits have examined and studied. Since everyone knows everyone else facebook is the village taverna. It's where you speak to your friends about other friends and a community forms. If you interact with enough groups then that village, that medium (facebook) becomes a family. There is nothing sinister about it for the simple reason that you do not remain anonymous. Everyone whose interest you have summoned will be able to feed their curiosity and the next time they go to an event they will invite you. I love it. When I was living in a small village in Switzerland I was afraid that technology was a great isolationist tool but that view has changed. What is isolationist about going online and sharing your interests with others. i created one group and 56 people became members. Those members are all fans of the Paleo Festival. Events are shared and talked about. I may not spend every day around those at King's but this does not mean that I have not been invited to their events. I was invited in person to the clavicle challenge but did not participate. I've been invited to parties via sms, bulletins on myspace and event notifications on Facebook. People invite other friends and you'll see how many people are planning on going and next time you meet them you'll be able to discuss that. In other cases, as with the silent disco I was able to see an event and participate. Once the event was over I was able to share the content with many people. They come, they participate. They take pictures and upload them. I upload some as well. The event was only an hour long but the bond formed through the event is enhanced and perpetuated through Facebook. There is a night at the SU bar tonight involving tequilla shots. Many people will meet but how many friendships will last beyond a night. There's one girl who I chatted to at the beginning of the year but now she doesn't recognise me. Similar things happen every year and it's tiring. Facebook has become the new social hub. I see how everyone is doing and they see how I'm doing. They post pictures and I'm reminded of how much fun was had at those events. It's perpetual, a cycle of positive feedback. Does technology determin how people interact? Yes because it helps them get to where they want to get and affects the comfort level but no because human nature is human. In other words the fundamental principles remain the same although the means by which certain things are done affects the interaction. Why study the media? Because by studying the media you are studying communication between individuals, whether it's the type of chair they're sitting on or the type of alcohol they're drinking. It encompasses our daily lives to such an extent that it's considered a mickey mouse course. Why spend 30hrs in a library reading books that were written thirty years ago when the media changes at the speed of thought. I've seen the media landscape change so much within the past 10 years that every day I form new opinions and philosophies about communication. Media studies are within every book about film, every photograph, every song, every bag. We're saturated by the media around us therefore we discredit those who study the media. I don't me we as in I but rather the metaphorical We of society as a whole.