---
title: 'Planning A New Section For My Website.'
date: Mon, 25 Jun 2007 13:26:55 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['blogging', 'Post-university life', 'search engine', 'tech related', 'webmastering', 'website', 'website news']
---

Today I've spent time looking at the website earnings and I've seen that with just a few minutes of work I've doubled the earnings from my website. I'm not going into the details at the moment but since I seem to be doing nothing productive I'm going to re-work my website to increase my earnings. Four hundred and sixty visitors passthrough this website with about a million six hundred hits of which most visitors, through search engines get straight to the page they want. What I need to do over the next few days is making sure that there is advertising on most of the pages. in so doing I increase the opportunity for people to click through and find more relevant content on someone else's web page. I need to write more articles, rather than blog posts. Blog posts are a lazy method of web mastering because they require no real effort. Find an idea, write about it, post it. At least when you create a page you think about the content. I'll start by writing a section about a variety of podcasts I've enjoyed over the past two years and hope that what I write will be appreciated by others. Through this process I will be targeting a specific audience, trying to create relevant content and as a result get more visitors. When working on the Roman section of this website I ran out of knowledge, therefore, the speed at which I added content plummeted. There is one page that I'm proud of from the time. It's the one on Slavery. I spent several hours doing research, writing notes, and then uploading this page to the website. As a result of the quality of content universities and a number of other reputable websites linked to my own. That's what I plan to do with the new sections I will add on podcasts I enjoy listening to and why. It's going to take a few days to generate this new section but since I'm between studies and work it's one way of attempting to get a small secondary income. We'll see how it goes.