---
title: 'Podcast listening and more'
date: Wed, 20 Jun 2007 00:46:06 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['dissertation', 'facebook', 'Holidays', 'ipod', 'London', 'podcasts', 'Post-university life', 'tech related']
---

Since I finished my dissertation my biggest time sink has been listening to podcasts. For some reason, I download the entire series of podcasts and work through them one at a time until there are no more. It's a way of relaxing. It's also a way of getting information quite easily. In London, I hardly ever leave home without the iPod whilst in Switzerland due to my driving I can't listen to podcasts when traveling by car. When it's on foot however I can. I found a loop that I do that's about an hour's walk and if I chose to I can make that loop last a shorter or longer amount of time depending on which paths through the fields I've chosen. Over the past few walks, the rain started falling onto me but it was warm enough and the rain so weak so as not to inconvenience me. During this podcast listening, I've learned a lot about technology and the opinions of a team of people. I've seen the evolution in attitude between various podcasters. We see the evolution from being fairly new at certain podcast programs to being quite weathered in by the entire process. As a result, the content is more relaxed and feels more familiar. It's more familiar to me as well. I know these individuals now, as they've talked over time. It's not quite as remote anymore. As I listen to podcasts I've started to think that they're not that innovative. They're doing what radio did years ago but rather than concentrate on music and other such topics they concentrate on technology and those behind the scenes. In so doing there's been a shift from a celebrity culture of films and music to one of the bloggers, web developers, and more. We're in a time when being online is so easy and so normal that everyone is there. Within the past 8 months, Facebook has gone from having two or three of my friends there to over 200. That's quite a big shift, quite a change. The online world is no longer the realm of the geek. In fact, it would seem that being online is no longer a geeky pastime. I was also thinking about how social networking websites have become the new portals. Remember yahoo, Altavista and others attempting to become portals, the starting point for most people's web experiences. Now Facebook, at least within my real-life circle of friends, seems to be the most important. Everyone seems to be there now, or almost. How long will Facebook remain popular?