---
title: 'Screening: Kosovo, the Valley'
date: Mon, 21 Jan 2008 16:25:26 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Albania', 'documentary', 'Frontline', 'Kosovo', 'Post-university life', 'reviews', 'Screening', 'Serbia']
---

Last night I went to watch an observational documentary called [Kosovo, the Valley](http://www.frontlineclub.com/club_videoevents.php?event=1593), about the conflict in Kosovo in 1998. The event took place at the [Frontline club](http://www.frontlineclub.com/) in London. The documentary starts with a graphic scene of the aftermath of an attack and takes a look at both the Albanian side of the conflict and the Serb. It's a good documentary that helps to understand how the conflict was. Keep in mind that the documentary was shot back in 1998 and finished in 1999. During the Questions and answers session we learned that the documentary was produced over a period of months, from months of research to weeks of actual production with film camera work and an amusing anecdote about the current Prime Minister of Kosovo having confiscated a few reels of films and more. Thanks to the budget the producer had been given he had the ability and the luxury to learn and understand the story like someone who would file reports could not. As a result there are a few personal stories and it was not meant as a current affairs program. Accessing the UCK (KLA) was apparently challenging because they had no media policy, rather there was some necessity in going via Switzerland although how Switzerland helped is unclear. Is it through the United Nations or other. I'm not sure. Another aspect of this documentary is that through it's very nature the film makers had the challenge of covering both sides of the story. The producer was faced with having to make sure not to disclose information from either side. That's an interesting situation to be in but through negotiation they were able not to disclose any information about the others. Following one person's question we found out that due to the nature of these village communities they lived fairly isolated lives as a result of which they may never have met someone from the other side. As a result prejudice had been easy for some to bring in. A side of effect of this was the lack of a media policy or organisation. One person in the crowd who had gone into the area in 1999 asked whether some questions about military organisation. Apparently they were not that well organised. The KLA had some people in charge of the main part although overall control was according to tribes and the head of the family, more traditional. What this meant is that they did not provide a unified front when attacks occured. Radios were not working. We could see aspects of this in the documentary. I'm glad I went to see this documentary because after having a good friendship with one Albanian girl I saw a lot of their culture as it was in Switzerland. I became interested in the background as to why she moved to Switzerlan. I understood certain of the words and I know about the music. I'm happy I read "Les Tambours de la Pluie" since it meant I had better background information. I'd recommend watching the documentary although some scenes are quite graphic and may not be suitable for all. It's powerful and I'm glad I went to it. --- Update --- There is a none english version that can be found [here](http://tinyurl.com/thevalley)