---
title: 'Sharkwater - a documentary worth watching'
date: Sun, 17 Apr 2016 18:53:17 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['documentary', 'Documentary', 'environmental', 'environmentalism', 'environmentalism', 'investigative journalism', 'reviews', 'social conscience', 'social responsibility', 'travel', 'Video', 'youtube']
---

Sharkwater - A documentary worth watching. If you have one and a half hours of free time I recommend watching this documentary. It discusses the anti-whaling work by the Sea Shepherd, the work it did to combat long lining around the Galapagos and it touches on the shark finning mafia and corruption. The documentary also looks at the public perception of sharks. It shows that they are not the dangerous animal that they were thought to be until recent history. The film ends with a shot of the narrator free-diving with sharks and being perfectly relaxed. At one point he says "sharks are so sensitive that they can feel your heart beat, if you are calm they will stay but if you panic they will flee". I paraphrased his exact words. Another theme that is explored in this documentary is the food chain. He mentions that plankton absorb a lot of Carbon dioxide and that with the overfishing of sharks the ecological balance will be ruined as the apex predators are lost. He pushes strongly for the conservation of shark numbers. We are familiar with the current Save our Sharks movement. This is an interesting investigative documentary about the economy surrounding shark finning and why it has a negative impact on the food chain. If the documentary was updated it could look at the economic viability of shark tourism that has grown in recent years. Sharks, in some places are more valuable alive than dead. If you don't have time to watch the entire documentary then I recommend that you watch the last thirty to fourty minutes.