---
title: 'Slightly Ahead Of Their Comfort Zone'
date: Sat, 16 Jun 2007 21:52:32 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['filming', 'friends', 'gig', 'Holidays', 'lakeside', 'Nyon', 'Post-university life', 'summer holidays', 'tech related', 'two camera shoot', 'work']
---

Today I went to film some friends playing a gig by the lakeside in Nyon and it was a great occasion. The sun was shining, the air temperature was good and many people that I had not seen in many years were present. The shoot involved two cameras. One was at the back as a safety shot whilst I got the fun camera at the front. There was one electric guitar, one acoustic, and one bass. There was also a drum kit and a synthesizer.  The music was good but I forgot my hearing protection so I had a slight ringing by the end of the event... all in a day's work. I managed to get the whole concert filmed without getting tired which is great. I've been using the camera I used for the past 7 years so it's normal I'm so comfortable with it. I watched the footage and I'm happy with it. It's good, a nice variety of shots, switches at the right moment from the key instrument to the next. Bart Simpson was sitting on the drum kit and then got to dance with a girl who was meant to sing, the only problem is the sound engineer didn't make her mic loud enough. It's normal since they didn't take enough time to prepare everything before having the gig go live. I've captured all the video footage and it's ready to be compressed and uploaded to Facebook. I've actually annoyed them and got a "You recently uploaded a video to Facebook, and it could not be processed because it was too long." message. hehe, that's normal for me. I'm uploading those videos to the video section of my website and they'll be available on the RSS feed within the next few days. I need to count about two hours of processing per video clip unfortunately. With the Macbookpro I'm waiting for it should be faster. Today was in some respects a perfect day and I'd like more of them to be like this.