---
title: 'Social media girlfriends'
date: Sat, 15 Dec 2007 00:26:39 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['seesmic', 'social media', 'social media living room', 'twitter', 'Uncategorized']
---

I like the social media and I spend a lot of time with them. Occasionally i meet the people involved in real life and so the social media are no longer quite as interesting, although of course I still have fun with them. One of the things I've been thinking is the term social media girlfriend. What would require for a person to be a social media girlfriend? What does it require in the physical world? Conversation for a start. It would entail many conversations and discusssions, so far Twitter and seesmic both provide that. I wake up in the morning, hardly able to open my eyes yet I open up the laptop and type "good morning world" to which i get a good morning back. There are currently two social media girls that wish me a good morning. Melissah in Australia is one of them. [Maggieconv](http://www.twitter.com/maggieconv) in the US is the second. The three of us are in different timezones but we wish each other good meals, nice evenings, good mornings and sweet dreams. We're friends in the same sense that flat mates may be but with one big difference. We are not within the same physical space. We're separated by distance, over a thousand kilometers when we're lucky, over 20,000 when we're not. That's unimportant. It's the idea that we share our daily lives through text messaging, data access on phones, websites, blogs and even facebook. To some people this is an abstract idea. Why would you want to meet people online in such a way. Well in fact chatrooms were like this a decade ago. IRC is like that today. There's one major difference. We're not anonymous. We know how the people look, we know how they sound. We know when they're happy and we know when things are going well. We also know when they're going badly. If both physical and virtual friends are both inhabiting the same spaces nowadays then what discounts those whom we don't know from another context? If I meet you at the cinema and we become friends then everyone would accept that. Online though people wouldn't. Of course that is changing. For me the distinction is fading since I have met so many of these people in real life, occasionally quite a few at once. Anyway part of the reason for this post is that I was called a flirt online, told that half my seesmic videos answering one girl's posts were flirts. It kicked off a conversation about flirting and that's fun. we're using the social media and we're flirting. That's a great idea. The idea that we're flirting with people across a new medium. That's where the idea of a social media girlfriend came into place. I saw two friends flirting across both seesmic and Twitter and I thought that this was the perfect opportunity to come out with the idea. Anyway to cut a long story short I was meaning to type @[melissah](http://www.twitter.com/melissah) but started to write @[maggieconv](http://www.twitter.com/maggieconv) instead. Would she be more likely to be a social media girlfriend? We added each other on Facebook so there's a chance she c0uld be a social media girlfriend.