---
title: 'Steep - A Snowboarding, skiing, Parapente and Base Jumping game'
date: Tue, 06 Dec 2016 08:00:53 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['computer game', 'France', 'reviews', 'social networking', 'Steep', 'Video', 'youtube']
---

Winter is coming and snow has fallen on the local peaks and then melted again. The temptation to go snowboarding in real life is back. While waiting to go and do sports in the real world Ubisoft give us the opportunity to simulate the experiences of snowboarding, skiing, base jumping and paragldiding. I know three of these sports. I ski, I snowboard and I recently tasted my first paragliding flight.As I watched the trailer above and Jack Septiceye's video of the game it reminded me of so many of the extreme sports videos I have watched. It also reminded me of the FIFAD event as well as the Montagne En Scène events. It pays a nice tribute to the culture of snowboarding and extreme sports that many of us have grown up with. It also harkens back to the days when I would edit the events that are mentioned in the trailer to this game. This would be a good game to have in the chalet while waiting for the snow to fall or the conditions to improve. I understand why the game filled me with passion. I liked seeing places that we know. It's because the game developers are in Annecy so they're playing in the same landscape as us. They're snowboarders and skiers so they understand the sensations and they're trying to emulate them in the game. When watching the paragliding sequences I like that we hear the flight computer's beep as you ascend at different rates. It's one aspect that you really notice the first time you try paragliding. That's a nice touch for the game. From the videos I have watched so far it looks as though they have managed to capture all of these sensations in the game. This looks like a really enjoyable game to play. The game should provide people with a nice amount of escapism. As they get used to the controls and as the community for this game grows so the ties that bind this community will grow. It looks excellent.