---
title: 'Strolling From Picadilly To Bermondsey On Foot'
date: Wed, 04 Jul 2007 19:39:52 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['central london', 'London walk', 'London walks', 'patience', 'Post-university life', 'tech related', 'tube travel']
---

My latest trip of the day has been a walk from Picadilly Circus after dropping by the bank before going along the bank and getting to Bermondsey. It's a nice walk and luckily I didn't have too many people to avoid. As I walked by Greenpark it started to drizzle a little but it didn't do much so I continued my root. I got towards the Parliament Tesco, bought two cokes, and continued on my journey. The usual sights were there but the street performers lacked an audience. The classical musicians under one arch had no audience. Practice I suppose. The interesting part of the walk is between Tower bridge and Bermondsey because you pass by the Thames walk and it feels less public. You see a small bridge which I think can be raised and upon this bridge a group of friends being photographed by a self-timed camera. I waited for the picture was taken before continuing on my journey. It's not a bad part of London from what I glimpsed briefly. The sardine express tube carriages were full due to a security alert encouraging delays on the line. I was in no rush so I sat down and watched as train after train filled with people passed. After a while, I got tired of waiting and caught the tube to Green Park and walked a little further. I passed by Covent Garden where Charlie Chaplin the second was performing, getting a child to throw him coloured plastic bricks. I didn't stay for the rest of the trick. The time I took was useful because by the time I went back down to the tube it was empty once more and I could return home in relative comfort. I'm tired now, and my laptop is apparently in Eindhoven in Holland waiting to be transferred to Switzerland. On the 6th I should have another status report. I really want it now, want to play with DVD studio pro and make a good quality DVD.