---
title: 'Suunto and Sports tracker collaborate.'
date: Fri, 22 Jan 2016 15:35:33 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['gps watch', 'movescount', 'N95', 'social media', 'social networking', 'sports tracker', 'suunto', 'Swiss walks', 'tech related']
---

I have been using sports tracker for years. I first used it on the Nokia N95 8GB several years ago. This was an excellent app that allowed you to track your moves using the mobile phone as a GPS. The limitation of such an app was battery life on mobile phones. The battery usually did not last more than an hour at first and eventually progressed to two hours or more. The first Suunto Device I used was for diving. I used the Suunto D9 dive computer for many months before upgrading. As I satisfied with this device I bought the Suunto Ambit 2 and eventually the Suunto Ambit 3. The reason for buying these watches is battery life. As normal watches they can last for 100 days, losing about one percent a day. If you use them as fitness watches then they easily last for a day or more. When you're doing via Ferrata, hiking, cycling or doing other sports you want the device you use to track your fitness efforts for as long as you're going. That's where Sports trackers and other mobile phones had their weakness. Mobile phone apps sometimes crash. If you're pushing yourself hard during a workout you do not want to reach the end of a workout with no data. Another frustration I often encountered was with Movescount, Suunto's social sports app. At the end of quite a few workouts, I was unable to sync my workout data and analyse my progress. At the time, I wanted to see Suunto and Sports tracker combined. They're both Finnish companies and they both excel at specific tasks. Suunto for the hardware and Sports tracker for the analytics. By combining the two we have the best of both worlds. Communications between Movescount and Sports tracker has been available for several weeks at this point and it works flawlessly. I have hiked, cycled, walked, sailed and climbed and each activity has synced without problems. \[gallery ids="2690,2689,2688"\]