---
title: 'Television Series'
date: Thu, 04 Jan 2007 21:24:57 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['DVD', 'Holidays', 'house', 'random', 'Scrubs', 'television', 'television series']
---

I love watching television series on DVD and straight from the hard disk. You never understand the complexity of the storyline until you spend 12 hours or more watching entire seasons of series like Scrubs or House. If you look at the series scrubs you'll get to know the characters very well and they'll become far more interesting than if you were to watch only an episode a week. That's probably why they have channels where you run a series every day for a number of days before going back to the beginning again. The best example of that is the Simpsons and Mash. How many times have you seen certain episodes? Recently I enjoyed watching the series House because it's analytical nature. You've got a patient and you run tests, and lot's of lumbar punctures. For some reason that seems to be one of the favourites... probably because it's the most interesting. When I finished watching a few episodes I saw how greatly I enjoyed the series but more than that how diagnostic you think you become. I don't mind that you can cure diseases or anything of the sort. I mean that the series is exploring how reason and empirical knowledge can accumulate so that when you see something out of the ordinary you try to understand it. You start to notice smaller things. It's great for students, It'll encourage you to diagnose various situations and find solutions. The most recent series I've been watching is Dexter. After I came back from New York I was curious about the program. The adverts had peaked my curiosity therefore I had to find a way by which to access the series. I've been watching the series and I'm enjoying it. I watched the first episode on my video iPod, to see just how watchable series were on an i-pod. It's not that bad. I watched the next two or three episodes on my laptop since that's more comfortable. The beauty of holidays is staying in a quiet place and doing what you want, driving around and more. It's just over a week until I go back to England and the fun starts again.