---
title: 'Ten Days without Twitter'
date: Thu, 05 Feb 2009 09:58:14 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['sports', 'switzerland', 'twestival', 'twitter', 'Uncategorized']
---

There is a video of me at the only Twestival event I have ever been to and I lay into the event for the fashionistas that attended the event. I was so disappointed with the event as a whole that I have lost my passion for going to social media events, especially when I need to travel over a thousand kilometers. Environmental conscience is one good reason for not travelling to these events but the second is the quality of the people there. When I talked to people at the Twestival event and asked them about twitter they looked at me strangely, when I asked them about how many tweets they had written they told me from five to two hundred on average. As a passionate twitter user and having been to a lot of social media events, tweetups and seesmeetups this really dissapointed me. The event felt like nothing more than a facade, nothing more than an opportunity for people to say "look at how trendy I am, I'm on twitter" yet not understanding anything about the ethos of the twitter way of life. I love twitter, and I love those that use it well, I love how certain people use it the same way they use sms and other social means. I don't like that in Switzerland I'm strange because I use twitter. I like it even less that over here twitter will never be popular. There is no reason for it because of social cohesion, but also a far smaller community. Switzerland is about skiing, sailing, cycling, hiking, parapente and more sports. We're not in a city. We're in the countryside, Europe's playground. Why be geeky when sports would be more social. More to the point everything is current. I don't need to wait two to five years for people to adopt the sports. That's why I'm coming back to Twitter on Valentine's day. (It's also the day I got my driving licence ;-))