---
title: 'The future of the media'
date: Thu, 27 Jul 2006 21:22:38 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['amp', 'broadcasting', 'footage', 'future', 'media', 'satellite', 'university', 'work', 'work']
---

Over the next two weeks, I am working in part of what will become part of the new media landscape. I receive footage via satellite and edit short summaries to become video clips on the official site of the organisation. At the moment it's not visible to the normal public but it is an interesting activity. As part of my dissertation, I have to understand where the documentary has come from and where it's going. It's an interesting way to spend time and I'm learning about new things all the time. We'll see what the landscape will be like once I'm working full time in the media again. Paleo was really good fun. An average day consists of five hours of work, followed by at least two or three concerts, a multitude of conversations before ending with three or four hours of sleep. The conversations have ranged from the passion that certain friends have for Nutella to driving Segway around one particular stand. With one friend we went through to the moshpit of one concert and there was a good ambiance. With another friend everything was far calmer, more relaxed, taking time to unwind and relax. I have learned about long hours in the sun drinking ice tea whilst at work and enjoyed it greatly. It's good fun because there's a breeze, people come and go, and as they do your greeting varies. The variation in greeting is part of what makes the work so enjoyable. When people pass they do so without wanting to take time to chat sometimes but as they have a badge you can read their name. In doing so you can greet them more personally. I read so many name badges over a number of hours that it was quite a challenge to remember everyone's name. In fact, I could probably remember none. Faces... that's what I remember all the time, not names. On that note, I'll stop rambling.