---
title: 'The social media living room.'
date: Fri, 23 Nov 2007 21:52:42 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['ipod touch', 'seesmic', 'social media living room', 'social networking', 'tech related', 'twitter']
---

The social media living room is great because it's really any device that you can connect to the web with, whether a simple mobile phone or a full spec desktop computer. Some of us look at the computer first thing in the morning and last thing at a night. This is as much as part of a technological expansion in the form of broadband. Just today an article by the BBC described how people are more and more wired with 90% using broadband, or some similar number. What this means is simple More hours spent therefore more conversation. With twitter it's more overheard conversations. That's not where it stops. Twitter, seesmic and similar websites turn a private discussion into a public one where the "overheard conversation" is a key point. It's an evolution back to the route of internet chat. 10 years ago I spent 13hrs in a row online and I saw the shift from Australia to Japan, India, South Africa, Eastern Europe, Europe, NEw York and more. The difference is that at that time there was no meta data and the initiator to conversations was ASL. Now it's reached maturity for those of us early adopters. Many of our friends are middle adopters and when they start using it they will not take full advantage. Look at how people use facebook. When asked by @leisa on twitter during a meeting in real life how often I checked facebook I answered as much as my e-mail. A lot of people do. What is not talked about is how middle adopters use it. They are far more limited. They don't add rss feeds because they have no blog, few pictures if any on flickr and in general do not create content. They're lurkers. Almost all of my friends are facebook I've been to parties with, studied or a combination of more. As a result it's a personal network of IRL friends who have links to each other as well as through me. These people don't use twitter, jaiku, tumblr, Pulse plaxo or more. I surprised a conversation on facebook where after seeing someone comment on their post one facebook user asked the other how dare they comment. They didn't understand the principle of the forum. That's something all of us are familiar with as early adopters. We are not technological determinists. We believe in the need for something and create a technology to cope. Look at Seesmic. It's video. It's twitter with video. One person commented on how it was based on time consumption. He said that although he would love to see everyone's video and listen to what they have to say that because it's time based it would take too long. As a result he'd follow just the friend's timeline. This brings me back to twitter. How many friends do you have. Do you still use the public timeline or is your friend's timeline filled with more than enough conversations not to need this? I think it's a really interesting conversation. How does the social media living room integrate into your daily activities.