---
title: 'The new social scene - Seesmic and Twitter'
date: Wed, 07 Nov 2007 23:23:08 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Post-university life', 'seesmic', 'seesmic', 'social networking', 'twitter', 'twitter']
---

How many of you have a wifi enabled laptop. How many of you have a wap enabled phone. How many of you have msn messenger. The reason I'm asking you this question is the following. I've been using twitter for several months now and it's whilst working on my dissertation that I wrote the most. Now I'm trying Loic Lemeur's new video website, Seesmic. It's based off the twitter principle, that you leave a short video clip, no more than a minute in length about anything, or at least that's my impression. You can add content in one of three ways. Record it straight from the laptop, link to it from youtube or upload a pre-recorded segment. The two latter options aren't that interesting but the first one is for one simple reason.  It's about snippets. When you talk to someone you usually say a sentence or two and then the conversation switches back to you and there's that back and forth of a lively conversation. In so doing there's little or no chance of you switching off and going to find something else of interest. It's also a dialogue between people in different countries and timezones, reflective of the new media landscape as seen by those on the cutting edge of social interaction. What's so special about this site is that it's visual and auditory. With twitter you can read twenty tweets in twenty seconds whereas with seesmic you're condemned to listen to a person go at their own speed. That's why less than a minute is more than enough for most conversations. Everyone that's a member participates and in so doing creates their own social group with a difference. Mainly you can see and hear whether they're happy, lonely, tired or bored. It mans that you can see that little twinkle in their eye, that relaxed stance or their accent. It's personal. It's most of what you get from meeting someone in person in other words and that's what makes it great. I'm looking forward to all the conversations I'm going to have with the people I'm meeting at the moment, whether exclusively online or living in a mixture of both as I am. I'm enjoying this.