---
title: 'The Social Media Autumn'
date: Wed, 22 Oct 2008 15:37:53 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['observation', 'recession', 'social media']
---

Liz Strauss wrote about the [leaves and the trees](http://www.successful-blog.com/1/in-the-company-of-trees-while-walking-in-the-forest/) and that got me thinking of the Social Media autumn. It's the time of the year when everyone gets back to work after summer and they no longer have as much time to be sociable, whether online or offline and as the trees remains so the leaves are gone. Of course in this context the trees are the social networks and the leaves are the users. How many of these trees are deserted? Kosso was wondering whether people will keep using [phreadz](http://www.phreadz.com) in the same way. Loic Lemeur was questioning how people would keep using Seesmic. At the same time we're going into what will probably turn out to be a recession and we get repetitive news. One of those stories is about how Yahoo is getting rid of ten percent of it's work force. That's hardly new. They've had a few purges recently. That's what you get for being one of the top three companies in search (or has it changed since then?). One person recently wrote that the advantage of the recession is that it gives you an opportunity to get rid of those that are not as productive as they should be. It's an opportunity to streamline the company and find new ways of being more productive. You see that's the advantage of silence, of time apart, of a little time to think. It's the time when those in the social media, but it applies everywhere. How long will the recession last. Which networks will remain and who will stay. Why will they stay and what collaborations will thrive. Now is the time to see which ideas have the most potential. How will the social media look covered in snow?