---
title: 'The Seesmeetup'
date: Sat, 29 Dec 2007 15:20:43 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['friends', 'fun', 'London', 'observation', 'seesmic', 'seesmic', 'social media', 'social media', 'social networking', 'twitter', 'twitter']
---

It's taken no more than a few days from the time I first saw Fred2baro on seesmic to our first meeting with Deek in London for the first Seesmeetup... so called. In fact it was both Sizemore that had the first meeting although more private in nature. One of the questions that one of Fred2baro's relatives asked was why would you want to be part of Seesmic? Aren't people pretend and fake? Aren't you uncomfortable with this? My answer was the following: When you go to a bar or you meet people face to face rather than via twitter or Seesmic you're quite often in a bar under the influence of a drink or two. As a result you're not as genuine as you'd be if you met in another place. In other words Seesmic and twitter are a way of getting to know people before you meet them in the physical world. What this means is that you can generate some great friendships, some strong ones. It's also a new contemporary method of networking than the bar. We've got too many distractions at home. Whether it's from the computer, the phone or the television to feel the absolute need to go out to bars where we'd sit and be bored anyway. The point is the following. To me the social media, especially twitter and seesmic are a great way of creating new friendships in the physical world where limitations of time and travel distances are cancelled out. If' we're part of an international society why not meet people online and bring it to the physical world rather than the other way around. How many times have you been sad to see a friendship disintegrate because of distance? I have, many times. Time to enjoy these new toys.