---
title: 'The Scoble Vs Facebook event'
date: Thu, 03 Jan 2008 16:42:45 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['facebook']
---

This is a response to a post on [Segala](http://segala.com/blog/scoble-kicked-off-facebook/?domovar=1#comment-270318): Scoble opens up debate about walled gardens after being booted by Facebook. There are two key factors to take into account. The first of these is the issue of privacy and the second is the free flow of information. Unlike most other sites facebook is both hated and detested by different groups of users. As a recent university graduate and member of the international community it's a great way to keep up with what my friends are doing without having to make hundreds of five second phone calls. The second aspect has to do with Openness. Facebook was started as a forum based on one campus in one university but due to it's popularity expanded further. As a result it became a national and then international sensation. That's whilst still a student based website. This is where the issue of privacy plays a key role. If we are to trust this website then it must make sure to do everything within it's power to stop information collected. That includes e-mail and phone numbers, What you display is your choice and your friends can do what they want with that information, within the limiations set forth by facebook. That's where trust comes in. Without trust Facebook will dissapear much faster than any network because people give real names, real relationships and real addresses. Identity theft would be a disaster. Now how does this all fit in with Robert Scoble? He's got over five thousand facebook friends. If he decides to collect all the details we've offered up to facebook then both Robert Scoble and Facebook will suffer. Scoble for a breach of trust. Facebook for the same. Now what good has come of this so far? We've seen that they take privacy very seriously. So seriously that they're ready to get a storm of criticism for banning one of it's best known members (within the geek community). I actually feel far more secure in how Facebook deals with my information now that this has come to light. I think that if facebook bring this point to light they are going to gain a great amount of credibility.