---
title: 'Too much listening to podcasts.'
date: Thu, 28 Dec 2006 14:22:58 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['angelfire', 'geocities', 'Holidays', 'myspace', 'nostalgia', 'podcasting', 'podcasts', 'random']
---

I've been listening to a lot of podcasts over the past few days. i had to catch up with all those I haden't taken the time to listen to over the last few months. It's amusing. in "96 I began working on my website, in 2007 I uploaded it and since then I've been following everything that's happened. I've seen as some new things became old and old things became new again with time. How many people remember Geocities, Angelfire and other projects? I remember them. I remember when I started trying to get people to contribute to my website because I didn't have time to produce the content. It didn't work. That was web 2.0 several years before the time. I remember 6 degrees.com, a website that attempted to do something which is becoming more standard as new social networking websites come of age. Look at myspace, look at youtube and Flickr. Each one concentrates on your interest, whether music, video, or video. Everything the youth enjoy. Rupert Murdoch is attempting to join the fun. It bothers me that people are putting so much content on myspace without attempting to put that content onto their own domain names and websites. Why should I create content only to have a billionaire make a little extra money when the content is mine. The challenge for me is to find how to create content, host it myself, and then make money through other people showing interest. Over time it should improve. A site I like at the moment is Facebook because of how much information is available. The user interface is good, the add ons are interesting. If I create a post in a blog on my own website it'll automatically be synchronized with Facebook for people to come to and read. It's also where people I haven't seen for over a decade re-appear and I can see how things have evolved since last time. We've grown up.