---
title: 'Turn by turn navigation with the Nokia N97'
date: Tue, 02 Feb 2010 16:45:04 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['GPS', 'N97', 'Nokia', 'turn by turn', 'Uncategorized']
---

Last night I recovered my N97 after lending it to a friend for a few days and he told me it was too complicated to use, which I do agree with, after seeing how easy the 3gs is, but that's not the point of this post. Turn by turn navigation is. For those of you who know me you'll have heard that I've used the N95, N97 and Iphone for navigation and each has it's strengths and weaknesses. Mainly the biggest weakness is having to wait until you're stopped at a traffic light before checking whether you were going the right way or not. That has now changed. Nokia have recently come out with an excellent, yes, that's my opinion, add on to the maps software that provides turn by turn navigation with a choice of hundreds of voices. That's what makes the Nokia N97 such a great, although expensive GPS. You select the voice, in my case female Canadian french, and she will tell you which way to go. She will tell you when you're at a roundabout, whether to go right or left and more. Best of all her voice will allow you to keep your eyes on the road. If you're travelling with a fellow geek who can play with the phone whilst you're driving then they will notice the counting down, telling you how far you are from the next change in direction, show a map of the route as a forerunner to the actual journey or even a map of the complete journey. From what I've described above you see that the N97 behaves just like a dedicated navigation GPS that's constantly online. As a result you get traffic information telling you what to look out for. It's a beautiful piece of software and I'd love to go on a road trip to test it. I'm in favour of this in car navigation. If you buy a GPS you'd pay 300-400CHF in some cases, several hundred CHF for the Iphone tom-tom app, or you could get it for free with your N97. The choice is yours. I'm very happy with how well it performed.