---
title: 'Two mobile content mentalities.'
date: Mon, 17 Mar 2008 20:15:47 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['allthecontent', 'Apple', 'iPhone', 'Nokia', 'Post-university life', 'tech related', 'toutlecontenu', 'work']
---

When's the last time you visited a wap site? Have you thought of how content displays on mobile phones other than the Iphone? I hadn't until quite recently. Recently I moved back to Switzerland and have started to work for [Allthecontent](http://allthecontent.com/website/main.php) / [Toutlecontenu.com](http://www.toutlecontenu.com/website/main.php) and they provide multiplatform content for devices ranging from televisions to mobile phones and more. As a result of reading too much American press I lost interest in what Nokia were doing until it was mentioned that the iphone is not true mobile web use. At first that statement didn't make much sense but since then I've bought a Nokia N95 8 gig model and I've been playing with vodafone live, seeing how content is presented. It's very simple, quick and to the point. Images are small and sparse but text is heavy. Naviguate from one menu to another and you eventually get to content that's paying. That's where it becomes interesting. There are quite a few topics, from sports to entertainment to adult content. Some of this content is in video form, some in MMS form and yet some more comes as text. As a result content is easily accessible from most media handsets. Then there's the question of data packages. Look at Swisscom. For 18 swiss Francs you receive a hundred megabytes of data transfer. That's not much when considering the 3 gigs a day of transfers via my laptop. Mobile is different. I read that not more than fifty megabytes a month are downloaded over the air. Take a look at Iphone optimised pages in contrast. They're graphic intensive, slow to load and designed for one specific screen resolution. As a result of this that content is not accessible on most data plans or mobile devices. Iphones have a good part of the market but they're excluding many users. You can't download content on the iphone. You're losing revenue right there. What I think will be interesting over the coming months is to see how the European Vs. US mentality of mobile delivered content will affect telephone operators in these markets.