---
title: 'Two Seesmic evenings later'
date: Sun, 09 Dec 2007 04:21:08 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['seesmic', 'social media', 'social networking', 'twitter']
---

For the past two days I've been monitoring and participating in the seesmic conversations and it's been a really interesting experience. There are so many different people. You've got some people living in San Francisco, others in South East Asia, France, Australia and England and they're all coming to chat via video. This chat is different from other chats in that it's recorded segments. It's about people speaking about key parts of their day. Both Documentally and Sizemore for example decided to meet up at Sizemore's place to have a very entertaining evening of Seesmic video posting and discussion. As a result of this Jester joined in although quite timidly, at least for the start. With time I'm sure she's going to become quite active. There is a great range in age group from those that are children all the way up to their parents and beyond. As a result it's a family environment, a community where people joke around and have fun. It's a place that shows how a community can form without any ties in the physical world, at least initially. It's a great place and the best way for you to get a taste of the conviviality for this website is seesmix, the daily show that summarises the hottest conversation for the day. On some days it's conversations about racoons, snow, a song that sticks into people's heads and many more topic. It's also about the overheard conversation. It's about someone putting something out there and waiting for people to respond. It's about individuals talking and for others to involve themselves, community building. As a result of this it's quite different from the culture and the use of video phones that we had envisaged many years ago. I really enjoy the conversations on seesmic and I can see how strong a community it can become with the right discussion and time. I can see it as a video version of twitter and I'm wondering whether threading would be that useful, after all the conversations are working fine as they are. It's about actuality, about currency. If you want to get something out of this community then you need to participate rather than sit on the side and listen. You've got to become part of the storyline, to show your character to encourage others to interact with you. There are apparently about 1000 people currently active although no more than 50 people are trully active on the site at the moment. As it moves out of Alpha we can expect a lot more fun.