---
title: 'Unreasonably low - a rant against a certain ISP'
date: Mon, 12 Mar 2007 08:48:34 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['bandwidth', 'ISP', 'limitations', 'quality of service', 'Uncategorized', 'university']
---

Dear Victim, Yesterday you exceeded the daily usage limit of 500MB as referred to in our Terms and Conditions.   This type of activity could have a detrimental effect on our network and therefore we cannot allow this to continue.   Should you continue to exceed the daily download limit we will, unfortunately, be forced to downgrade your service to a throughput limit of 56Kbs dial-up speed, for a period of 5 days. If you exceed these limits on a regular basis, we may be forced to suspend your account. For users of Peer-to-peer (P2P) applications such as BearShare, Warez, Morpheus, BitTorrent, iMesh and KaZaA note the following: Most P2P applications you install will usually be configured so other users can access your hard drive and share your files all of the time. This constant file transfer can degrade your computer’s performance and generate heavy traffic loads on the network, making it difficult for other users of the network to work well. The network is a shared resource and we all must use it responsibly. Network bandwidth consumption is monitored. If your users could possibly impact the overall performance of the network, your computer may be blocked until the situation can be discussed. Should you have any queries regarding this email, please contact Customer Services Regards Appallingly crappy ISP ---------------------------- I'm a third-year media student who has spent the past decade online practically every day. I know where to find content. I understand the nature of the medium. I'm not your garden variety fifty-five-second user. I'm the type of user that would wake up every morning and download a gigabyte or more a day when at home. I go to the uni network and I've downloaded 600 megs within about ten minutes and my daily allowance is a pathetic 500 megs. Five hundred megs is not even one full copy of Linux. Some video podcasts are over a hundred megs each. Podcasts can be up to 100 megabytes in size. I hate their false advertising and promises. I have no choice though, I'm not the one selecting the ISP. _afterthought_ Where did Yahoo go wrong with their implementation of advertising along the same lines as google? They took two years longer than they should have to implement what belonged to them. I hope they go bankrupt.