---
title: 'WeatherproHD'
date: Sun, 30 May 2010 16:04:09 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

Weather is something I don't really care to take note of because it doesn't change much about my appearance. It does change what I drive though. In summer when the weather is nice and warm then I'd much rather drive the scooter than the car. That's because if I see a mother distracted by children whilst pulling out onto the main road it's easier to overtake her. It's also easier, when at traffic lights to get to the front of the queue rather than wait like an unambitious car driver, and before you object I'm very often trapped in traffic, so please remain polite in the comments (as if there were going to be any. **The interesting part.** Today and yesterday I was at an event in the lovely rain one day and sadistic rain the next. I call the rain sadistic because it resulted in many cycling injuries during a local race around the lake. One person at the event was playing with weather pro on the Iphone, and from the glimpse I caught I saw something useful. I'm home now and I downloaded the weather app on the Ipad, after all if you're going to spend money on an app you might as well have a frame to display it. I love how this app displays information. You have the weather graphic to show the main weather trends of the day. You have temperature information, rain information, wind direction, pressure, humidity and more. As an additional feature you have the ability to add your favourite cities, let's say London, Geneva, Paris, South Africa (for the World Cup) and maybe one more. Click on the right side of the screen and you have information for each city. There are three bonus buttons at the bottom of the screen, the weather button, whose features I have described. The radar tab shows you where the most recent precipitation has been. Satellite images show you what the clouds have been doing for a set time period. We'll see how often I use this app. I like that it has all these features.