---
title: 'Why I went to Paris'
date: Thu, 25 Oct 2007 07:56:02 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['fun', 'Post-university life', 'work']
---

The digital era of communcation is a great one because research for video material is no longer restricted the archives of the INA, France television, BBC, TSR and other archives to find footage you're looking for. A producer from [steamboat films](http://www.steamboatfilms.com/) was working on a documentary about the walkman and found a lot of historic footage to make the subject come alive. She aslo needed some comtemporary representation of how the modern walkman is used and came across [silent disco](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silent_disco) and my [footage](http://www.main-vision.com/silent/silent.html). The screening took place at the Centre Pompidou in Paris in the basement where there are two cinema rooms. The cinema was filled to more than half it's capacity as all those who had worked on the three documentaries met to get to know their fellow contributors. The three documentaries are The Bookworm, The Concorde and the Walkman of course. Each one is an individual documentary with it's own merits. I had the opportunity to see the Concorde documentary almost in it's entirety twice as I arrived whilst they were testing to make sure everything was in order. Having watched the Walkman documentary three or four times already, once with house mates and two or three times by myself it was fun to see an audience's reaction. It's fun to be surrounded by a professional group of people rather than fellow students. You see them laugh at moments that are both typically French and old fashioned. What they didn't laugh at so much is the silent disco footage, probably because it's too close to home. People did laugh, but not quite as many as I would have liked. I suspect the reason for that is that they're thinking of how they dance so laughing would be making a slight joke of their own dancing. There are two reasons why I enjoyed this event. The first was that it was the first time I'm surrounded by professionals as I get my first screen credit on the big screen at a cinema projection. It was also an opportunity to meet with the people that are behind the screen producing these programmes. I look forward to future collaborations in the near future.  I look forward to what the future holds.