---
title: 'Why it''s a waste of time to follow certain people'
date: Tue, 17 Feb 2009 10:00:47 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['twitter', 'twitter']
---

In [this article](http://mashable.com/2009/02/16/twitter-professors/) there are recommendations about who you should follow on twitter and I must admit I followed almost every one of them. I have unfollowed everyone of them except one. Chris Brogan. He's the person whom I feel is most likely to answer a tweet directed at him. If you're following someone for their ideas don't follow them on twitter if they're not going to converse with you. It's a waste of time and you're missing the gems from the smaller time twitter users. Twitter is not about reaching a mass audience, it's about reaching a focus group. Twitter's strenght is the way in which a cluster of people can discuss an idea and bring it to fruition. I've seen how tuttle went from being the Social media cafe to being called Tuttle. I watched as people talked online and wanted to meet and collaborate. Thanks to Lloyd Davis and others that idea became a reality. As a result of this idea whenever I would drop by the Tuttle Mornings (every single Friday I was in London) I would watch as people spoke about their ideas and projects and how they wanted to keep in touch. Twitter gave them the initial contact before the meeting, as well as the follow up once they had met in person. It created a great network of people for getting things done. If you think twitter is about following a thousand people you're an idiot. If you think it's about being followed by a thousand people you're an idiot. That's not what it's there for. It's there for real time conversations across a number of platforms. It's there so that when I'm waiting for a train I check what people are doing, for when I travel to meet with friends in other cities and more. If you're not on twitter to converse you're wasting my time, that's why I've unfollowed over a hundred people rcently. If you've got something interesting to say people will mention you in their conversations, I will find your blog and I will subscribe to it. That's the best place for ideas, they're presented, shared and debated, all activities that take a lot more than a hundred and fourty characters, and threading for that is essential. Now stop following those who talk, and start interacting with those that listen.