---
title: 'Why a 20% drop is not necessarily a bad thing for myspace'
date: Wed, 12 Sep 2007 07:19:48 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['observation', 'Post-university life', 'tech related']
---

According to [recent articles](http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/technology/2007/09/11/facebook_up_myspace_down.html) myspace is losing user share in relation Facebook but this is not necessarily a bad thing. When you think of facebook you know that it's a glorified phonebook therefore everyone "needs" to use it to remain in the loop. In contrast Myspace is a specialised music sharing site for artists and creators of music to come together and collaborate as members of the same art form. As a result of many users leaving myspace for other social networking websites so Myspace will have far less noise, in other words extra chatter that does not contribute to the appreciation of music. I for one have found myself using Myspace slightly more due to certain bands using the website. There are a hardcore group of people that are part of many social networks at once and they are able to cope with the demands. Most people spend twenty minutes in front of facebook getting up to date with their friends before disappearing.  "MySpace's lead in terms of "attention" is almost embarrassing: it scores 10.79% against Facebook's 1.67%." [source.](http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/technology/2007/09/11/facebook_up_myspace_down.html) People look at more content on Myspace than Facebook and user involvement is what counts to advertisers. Myspace is good for the sharing of music you create without people having to install extra api whilst Facebook is personalised by adding api and hoping that your friends install the same. Both will co-exist happily for another few months whilst waiting for the next site of interest.