---
title: '59 Twitter is Too Simple- Twitter is Just Right'
date: Fri, 21 Sep 2007 21:50:21 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Brogan 100', 'tech related', 'twitter']
---

Twitter is one of those things that's really hard to explain due to it's sheer simplicity. It's a website that allows you to answer the "what are you doing question". That is the initial phase. When you're new to twitter you'll be confused because you know no one therefore the codes and conventions are blurred. You may tweet once or twice a day and that's enough. Over time you will look at what other people are doing and that's when you move to phase two of twitter use. When I first started using twitter I had no idea how to use it. i thought that it was a storm of 140 character postings that are completely unrelated. Some refer to it as microblogging but it's not a blog. instead it's a great tool for entrepreneur for two key reasons. The first is brevity. Anything you say must be summarised to 140 characters. As a result you're efficient. The second factor is the interaction between twitter users. If you take a look at my profile and my twitter block then you'll see the ten most recent tweets in my public feed and what everyone within my circle are talking about. As a result of this you're entering a communal environment. Out of those I'm following on twitter I know from ten to twenty of them, occasionaly meeting a few of them two or more times. As a result I know what they're doing and they know what I'm doing as well. Each one of us is in charge of a number of projects we find of interest. I'm a recent graduate therefore I tweet about one set of things. Loudmouthman and Documentally both tweet about other things that are related to their activities. Links help to get all of this information and work distributed to the right people. Most of those on twitter have at least one website and quite a few profiles on a variety of other websites. We're embracing what's called web 2.0 by many people. It seems to be the tool of choice for entrepreneur to keep up to date with what everyone else is doing at the time. Just take a look and you'll see this for yourself. Twitter is a great tool for it's brevity and it brings together a great number of content creators who are having a conversation across borders and timezones. It's boundless in that it can be viewed from the mobile phone to the Itouch to the computer. It's versatile and quick and I'm going to continue using it for many months to come.