---
title: 'A blog of interest and walking'
date: Sun, 31 Aug 2008 20:30:43 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Swiss walks', 'walking']
---

When I started reading [Made in England by Gentlemen](http://www.made-in-england.org/) the blog was about technology but over the past few months the subject of the blog has changed. It's now a blog about walking, and it's not just any walk. They had decided to spend several months walking the Continental Divide trail and blogging the entire trip. What I've enjoyed are the images and some of the comments. It's a picture adventure of beautiful lanscapes. It's just two friends who walk, occasionaly teamed up by a GF or a brother and father before continuing on the journey. It's something I'd like to do. Every day I walk for an hour or two, covering about 12 kilometers. It's nothing in contrast but it's an important part of my daily routine. It's been part of my daily routine for years now, since the IB. I love the solitude of the walk. It's a moment where you're in your thoughts and the only distraction is the music or podcast you're listening to. It's a moment when day dreams and dreams form and where other ideas come to an end. It's a point of refreshing the mind. It's also about pleasure and endurance. When you start walking every day walking jsut two or three kilometers could seem tiring, then 5-6. Eventually as you get more and more used to the walk you're taking so the loop gets bigger and the more you need that walk. It's one of those enjoyable things. In London I missed not having kilometers of paths to walk down. In London I would walk through central London from one part to another and I'd get to know the whole city. I'd get to see places and how they were linked. I often joked with friends that when you're in London you should get to a tube station and walk away from it for as long as you're not tired. Once you're tired find the next tube station, get back to somewhere you know and travel in another direction. After living for years in a place you get to know every street and every corner. Every place has a memory and you might even burst out laughing... well not quite. It would look strange. It's familiarity. It's that thing that the main character in L'auberge Espagnole talks about when he's fresh into the city. "at first all the streets are unknown and resemble each other but at the end ever one of them has memories". that's when you've lived in a place long enough. Do many of you walk far? Do you walk fast? Is the walk part of something you do everyday?