---
title: 'A Larger Readership Than The Student Newspaper'
date: Tue, 17 Apr 2007 16:24:54 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['listening', 'podcasts', 'random', 'student life', 'student newspaper', 'university', 'university']
---

A few days ago I was with a friend discussing the student media within my university. I'm not speaking about the content created by those in the various courses but rather about the student newspaper and television channel. It's gone downhill over the past year. In my first year at uni although people poked fun at the student magazine they used to get it in order to get all the events listing. It meant that you knew a month in advance what was going on what night and so university spirit was stronger. At the same time, some second-year students of the time decided to create a student television program in which they got up and running external to the student union. In so doing they guaranteed success. Last year the student magazine coasted along and the first discussions about it becoming a newspaper happened. Since then it's been downhill. We've gone from having a glossy magazine coming out once a month with all events listed to having recycled paper as a newspaper. Rather than having people fighting to get their articles published an apathy seems to have formed around the project. There is no features editor, no listings editor, no main editor, and no layout person. This is a uni with 23,000+ students of which 10,000 full time. You'd be led to believe that they could produce some content without too much difficulty. The one thing that's doing relatively well is the student radio but it's not independent of the Student Union, therefore, it seems to run better. If they had kept podcasting as they were doing last year then I'd still be downloading and listening to those programs as I walk around London. I'm ready to leave university and get on with other more interesting projects. I'm ready to get back to the world of work. I only have about three weeks left of work.