---
title: 'A proposal for a crowdsourced portal acceptance system for Ingress agents.'
date: Fri, 16 Jan 2015 13:30:04 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['agents', 'ingress', 'ingress', 'portals', 'social media', 'social networking']
---

People love to submit portals and portals add excitement to Ingress. The more portals there are the busier you are. Cities are fantastic places for ingress players for this reason. Geneva, Barcelona, Neuchatel and other cities already have hundreds if not thousands of portals but go to the swiss countryside, the spanish sea side or away from big cities and portals are few and far between. As a result of this rural players don't have much to do unless they get in a car and create megafields. What I propose is a crowdsourced portal acceptance system. The system would have two features: Proximity to other portals. If you're in the middle of the countryside and the portal is submitted then it is moved to the top of the submission list for quick approval. By getting remote locations to have higher portal density so users are encouraged to become more active. As people see them play so new players are encouraged to join in the game. The second variable is based on geographic location. If a player in New York submits a portal then a player in Madrid from L9 or above sees the portal submission and decides whether or not it is too close to other portals, whether it is legitimate and whether it is worth validating. If a player from Paris submits a portal then a player can accept or refuse that portal. Of course the second feature requires for the Portal acceptance interface to be opened up to players of level 9 or higher. The permissions would only be "approve" or "reject". [](https://plus.google.com/communities/102464635958231746563 "The Appeals google plus community")will allow players to question the submission and let a group of people decide on the future of specific portals.