---
title: 'All that is left from three years is one essay and one dissertation'
date: Tue, 06 Mar 2007 12:57:22 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['dissertation', 'essays', 'media studies', 'random', 'student life', 'studies', 'travel', 'university']
---

Yesterday I handed in my penultimate essay. There are two main assignments remaining. the first of these is a tech case study which should be fun to do. I already have an idea of a topic that I know fairly well. with the second it's the dissertation and I should really spend a few hours progressing with that. I had one of those classic nights on Saturday. You begin with the idea that you're simply going to drop into the cinema and watch a film before going home and watching the lunar eclipse from the relatively low light pollution of the area around the halls. This plan disintegrated as a friend encouraged me to stay out and go out clubbing instead. I knew I had the penultimate essay to finish. Most people hate the night bus because it's so full of weird people, some are just drunk, others are in worse states and finally some are amusing. On occasion you'll enter the bus and a girl will offer you some crisps and you won't say know, to which someone next to you asks whether you're really going to accept them. Later on you understand that it's the brother joking around. In other cases you'll find that it's like a plane cabin. If you've ever flown easyjet and got up to go to the front of the cabin you'll know the sight. it's that of two hundred people having a nap. It's a soothing sight to see so many relaxed people. Occasionaly some people get cold so you lend them their jacket and you walk them home before rushing home to finish your essay rather than taking the time to get to know more about them. There are a lot of people that hate the stop at Sudbury but having lived there last year I know a little secret. That there's a 24 hour shop where you can buy jaffa cakes and lipton ice tea for the second part of the journey. What I enjoyed most about saturday was the people I met on the bus journey home.