---
title: 'Digitising Old Videos'
date: Tue, 17 Jul 2007 12:07:53 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['archiving', 'digitise', 'fun', 'memories', 'random', 'Video', 'video archive', 'video archives']
---

I have spent a few hours this morning and part of this afternoon digitising videos from a few years ago and it's a time warp. I have one or two fashion shows on tape. I have at least ten theatre pieces. I have two or three field weeks and I have the 2000 graduation trip to Crete on tape. Those are moments that are not just static, in an album. They are alive. They are moving and they are nice to keep. I would often spend weeks and weeks with the camera on me all the time, whether in a pocket or a bag. I would film life as it happened. I have a pre-show video of the Ramayana. I have a video of post-Ramayana drinks when the characters are still in character. I have some of the best nights I've spent in geneva on tape. I also have conversations. Does anyone remember the suction pump s\*\*\*\*tal scratcher? Do you remember why people were perplexed? I do. It's on tape and I want to digitise and share them with the people concerned because they are nice to have and there's a guaranteed laugh that would ensue. There are about 22yrs of my life on video and the past decade is shot mainly by myself. At one party I was busy and someone filmed me whilst I was occupied with what I was doing. I can see how I appear to other people. I can also see how other people interact. It's from a barbecue video that was had at home. That video won't be going online anytime soon, in fact, there's little chance of others seeing it. It's great to go through your own video archive, seeing your life as it happened whilst still a teenager. I'm going to go through some more tapes now, to find some footage that may have relevance to my showreel. It's the turn of the Tanzania footage now.