---
title: 'Discussing NewBcamp introduced a new point of view'
date: Sun, 04 Nov 2007 12:05:01 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['social networking', 'tech related', 'twitter']
---

[Twittervox](http://operator11.com/shows/3235/episodes/28463) is back on the air and there will be an episode at some point this afternoon, probably around 4pm GMT. During the most recent episode we were discussing Podcamp Boston 2 and one of the people that joined the conversation was [Sara Steeler](http://twitter.com/saranicole) of [Pygmae](http://pygmea.wordpress.com/) and [NewBcamp.](http://newbcamp08.wetpaint.com/?t=anon) Her ideas are interesting because she wants to involve more people into using current technology on a daily basis rather than produce content for people to hear, read or watch. What makes the NewBcamp interesting is that it's about creating an event where non creatives can meet and learn about the possibilities of new technology. She describes it as _NewBCamp... I am designing it especially for people new to technology, I welcome people to suggest topics they would like to hear presentations on, as well as presentations they feel qualified to give._ It differs from podcamp and barcamp events because it's goal is to get more people to take advantage of all the content that is being provided. _I want to get other people involved, people like the students in my classes, like my mom, like random people I know who have a thirst to know about how to do computer stuff._ One of the things that frustrated me as a university student is that radio students, of all people, did not understand the purpose of podcasting. They want to do radio and to be on the well known broadcasters. They do student radio but how many of them took advantage of creating podcast friendly content. How many of them would create content that could be put on an RSS feed and downloaded for convenient listening? For a short period they had podcasts but that stopped quite quickly. It's a shame because whilst I love the idea of listening to a friend's content whilst on the move I hate the idea of having to be by the computer listening to a live stream, especially when it's non time sensitive audio discussions. NewBcamp could help change that attitude, help develop awareness of what podcasts are and what you can do with them. It's also about awareness. What podcasts are out there and what audience would find them interesting. At the moment we find technology geeks, current affairs and more but what about other programs. I've seen a few snowboarding podcasts, a few history podcasts, several environmental shows but the problem is that their audience lacks familiarity with the medium. There are a few universitites that have audio podcasts, there are a few radio stations that offer additional content. Through projects such as [NewBcamp](http://newbcamp08.wetpaint.com/?t=anon) I hope that a new audience will discover and enjoy the pleasure of listening to a new form of distributing content and that the will experiment with it. I'd like to see a diversification in the type of content offered whilst including a broadening of topics covered. If you have some thoughts on the topic then don't hesitate to come up with suggestions and participate in the conversation.