---
title: 'Four Reasons to be Happy'
date: Fri, 06 Jul 2007 11:20:40 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['editing', 'happy', 'laptop', 'mac book pro', 'tech related', 'website news', 'work']
---

There are four reasons to be happy today. The first of these is that my MBP is finally in Geneva therefore it is a short matter of days before I get it into my hands and start playing with the computer and the new software. The laptop will be used for all video editing and multimedia work I have whilst the iBook will be used for daily tasks such as surfing the web, mobility, and more. I'm going to have two apple laptops capable of video editing at my disposal which is quite a luxury. The second reason I should be happy is that google Adsense, over the past week has doubled in income, meaning that I should get my next check twice as fast as the last one. I added a few more AdSense adverts on sections where advertising had not been and as a result, many more eyes are seeing and clicking on the advert. I'm still a long way from earning enough money to live off my website but any income is good. The third reason is that my website is being migrated to Drupal, a database-driven CMS solution for web mastering rather than the outdated HTML pages that it has been over the past decade. The advantage of the Content Management System (CMS) is that the layout is the same for every page whilst the content is held within a database. As a result, when you want to change something on multiple pages all you need to do is move blocks around. Blocks, when applied to drupal are how modules are manipulated to space them in specific areas on the website. As a result, whenever a website is re-worked it takes a matter of minutes rather than hours to change. As a side note, I've also updated both the PHP and MySQL database to version 5 and it's working smoothly for the time being. The final reason to be happy is that a friend has received the edited DVD that I worked on a few weeks ago and finalised within the past few days. As a result, I've managed to finish what I had to do a matter of days rather than hours before it was due.