---
title: 'Hit the ground running (waking up in Web 2.0)'
date: Fri, 05 Oct 2007 08:06:22 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['ipod touch', 'observation', 'tech related']
---

There was a time when you would wake up and it's only half an hour later that the world around you would be clearly visible. In today's web 2.0 world you wake up and twenty other people are wishing each other good morning. Many are celebrating that it' Friday and others have pathetic status messages about 40 days of celibacy, about being overworked and all those other messages. Of course everyone has the right to their feelings and to their own experiences but as certain individuals spend more and more time online they notice these status messages and trends and get really tired. Look at the level of media saturation about the McCann story. I muted a podcast for mentioning the story. Careless parents lost their daughter, end of story. It's not worth as much airtime as it's been given. Then there's the "back from the dead media coverage" that gets just as tiring. If a royal driving a car doesn't wear her seat belt and dies as a result of a crash then she should not be idolised in the way people have done. It should have been an opportunity to promote the use of seatbelts to avoid repeat deaths in such a manner. Then there's the enthusiast's oversaturation of the media. In particular I'm thinking of the Iphone. Of course it's a beautiful new interface, of course it's ushered in the fully screen tactile device but for anyone outside the US the media saturation has become too much. If you're an active consumer of new media news then there's a good chance you would have read several thousand articles boasting about how great it was. As a result a lot of people got media burn out from the story. It's only as a result of getting an ipod touch that I can tolerate those stories once more. The 30 minute news round up in the evening preceeded by the daily newspaper has been followed by an era of instant access to news stories once they have been written. What this means is that for ardent consumers of new media it is easy to reach a burn out/saturation point. we, as new media consumers must be careful not to read about single topics so much that we are unable to hear about specific topics anymore.