---
title: 'Idlewild'
date: Sun, 18 Feb 2007 02:00:32 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['book', 'fiction', 'idlewild', 'random', 'review', 'reviews', 'science fiction']
---

After having spent the whole night without sleep yesterday my energy levels were low and I decided that I would rest. In doing so I've spent quite a bit of time online but I've also conclued my reading of [Idlewild.](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/0553815970?ie=UTF8&tag=perspectraveland&linkCode=as2&camp=1634&creative=6738&creativeASIN=0553815970 "Idlewild") I was with a friend and he was looking for post apolaptyic books and was struggling to find anything. I was looking around at random books without any particular goal. After asking for help and getting some books suggested by the staff I decided to take a look at the books in the same section as he had been looking. It's always when you're not looking for something specific that you find it. I saw the book idlewild and I read the back. It seemed like a good book, showed it to the friend. He agreed. He commented "why do you find a book immediatly when I've just spent ten minutes looking without finding anything. Luck I suppose. The book is about some children who are living in a virtual world, created for their education. It is an immersive virtual reality program which they have grown up in from a young age. One of these people wakes up without memories, confused. Throughout the book he struggles to understand what happened. I won't go any more into the details of the book but it's a good read. It's one of those books that you start reading and actually finish within a short amount of time. It's well written and interesting. It's a look at what may one day be part of our daily lives. I enjoyed it so I'll pass the book to that friend and see what he thinks.