---
title: 'Nokia and the Sportstracker'
date: Sat, 03 May 2008 15:30:58 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['digital lifestyle', 'mobile streaming', 'N95', 'N95', 'Nokia', 'social media', 'sportsracker', 'travel']
---

A few weeks ago I was in Paris and when someone pulled out the iphone I commented that it's a bureaucratic tool but wasn't sure why. The n95 is a flexible fun phone to play with especially when looking at Sportstracker. It's an application I use every time I walk around. I'm not alone. Over a million people downloaded the application. _Eventually more than 1 million people downloaded the program and used it for sports the developers never dreamed of, such as paragliding, hot-air ballooning, and motorcycle riding._ _As a result, Nokia developers are realizing that aiming the application at amateur athletes was too narrow. They are thinking of rebranding the application as a kind of life-tracker. Based on the response to the software on Beta Labs, that may well help drive users to Nokia's Ovi Web portal \[also in beta testing\], which is the basis of Nokia's attempt to carve out a big piece of the evolving, mobile Internet. "It shows people they can do much more \[with their handsets\] than just make phone calls," says researcher Kaasinen._ [source](http://www.mobile-tech-today.com/story.xhtml?story_id=59573) If i start a trip from work or home there's a good chance I won't let sportstracker report where I am live because I don't want people to know certain details of my life. When I'm on holiday however this is a different matter. If I'm walking in St Moritz and I want my twitter or social media friends to see where I am then the sports tracker tells them where I am. With Flixwagon, Qik or Bambuser they can watch video of what I'm seeing as I'm seeing it. That's because you bring your friends with you with these new technologies. The digital lifestyle is more inmportant in how we relate to people and whilst in a place like Switzerland it may help to isolate people in high adoption areas of such technologies it has the reverse effect. Look at the Social media scene in London as just one example. It's just a matter of time before other manufacturers catch up and these toys become mainstream.