---
title: 'On Al Gore winning the Oscar for best documentary'
date: Tue, 27 Feb 2007 16:09:17 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Al Gore', 'best documentary', 'documentary', 'oscars', 'university']
---

I am greartly pained and sadened to see that Al Gore won the oscar for best documentary for "An Inconvenient truth". I find that this is absolute lunacy and there is reasoning behind this statement. In the United Kingdom you've got the British Broadcasting Corporation working on some beautiful documentary. Just look at Deep Blue, The Blue Planet and more recently the Planet Earth Series. Those are beautiful documentaries showing the world in such a good light. Those documentaries were produced over a period of three years or more using the world as a backdrop. The cinematography is amazing and they had 6 million people watching when they were first aired. They are beautiful peices of work. Al Gore's documentary is awful in comparison. For the voice over and script they did nothing more than film him giving a speech whilst throwing in the occasional related shot. I tried watching that piece of crap and got bored. Why are so many people making such a fuss about something that's been mentioned in hundreds of documentaries before this one. If you turn on any of the discovery channels there's a good chance that you'll find some beautifully produced documentary with higher production values exploring the subject in a far more esthetic and effective manner. Is it getting an oscar simply because it's by Al Gore? If that's the case then all the negative comments that people have made about the oscars are justified. That's not a documentary. It's someone giving a speech which have a few shots inserted to give the illusion of the documentary tradition. Where are the interviews? Where are the experts? If the Oscar's judges consider that oscar worthy then I will think twice about watching oscar awarded documentaries mockumentaries. [Previous Best Documentary award winner](http://www.libraryvideo.com/awards/academy_documentary.asp "Previous winners") so I suppose it's not that bad overall