---
title: 'Rag week is fun'
date: Sat, 10 Feb 2007 10:52:11 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['med students', 'Moonragger', 'rag week', 'random', 'student life', 'university', 'work']
---

I was at the Roxy bar a few days ago in central London and people were cheering. They had just seen the proper version of the Rag week trailer and they loved it. I had been asked to shoot some material and edit other material for Thursday evening when the rag review took place. I went to two or three of the events. I went to the school disco night and it was great fun, between people dancing, others being hit by the death squad and others just being really friendly it was a really good night. I met a lot of friendly people and there's such a contrast to my own university. When media students see a camera they're going to be so angry at you for filming, being to used to being behind they don't appreciate it as much. I must admit that I feel the same way. One individual that marked me is a girl that was on crutches who wanted to dance for the camera. there wasn't quite enough light so we don't see as much as would make the video great fun but it's still entertaining. I was on a platform and three girls came to join. Sandstorm was playing so I had to dance, in memoriam of when I was a fresher back in the South West of England. A girl took the camera from me and I danced for her so I'm going to have to include that footage in the edit as a good laugh. Moonragger had a different feel to it, partly because I was tired from the previous night. Some people needed to look futuristic and whilst some took aluminum foil and wrapped it around others took cling film. One person was in a spacesuit but I didn't manage to get that on tape. Lot's of people danced, lot's of people enjoyed the night. One attractive girl told me to "f\*\*\* off with the camera" so I moved away and filmed more people. She came back and told me to f\*\*\* of again. It's to be expected but what people haven't understood is that I film movement, I film when something interesting is in front of the camera. Turn your back to the camera or stop dancing and I'll understand you're self-conscious therefore the camera will stop rolling. There's no point in filming people standing around. I went to sit down and had some nice moments with people I had only briefly seen in the past. As a guest to the university, I really liked the way people were friendly and open. They want to chat, they want to be filmed, they enjoy the camera and appreciate my company. It's so refreshing. I'm going to add the video within the next few days for people to enjoy.