---
title: 'Ridley Scott is exploring an idea discussed by Dziga Vertov several decades ago'
date: Sun, 25 Jul 2010 16:57:51 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['lifestream', 'observation', 'seesmic', 'social media', 'social media living room', 'travel', 'Video']
---

Disclaimer: These are thoughts, rather than a well structured post.  Ridley Scott wants your user generated videos for a film "A Day on Earth" and whilst people are hyping this idea as something new the concept is an old one. Dziga Vertov had an idea that he would capture Life Unawares. Eventually he would end up with an experiment in six reels called "The Man with the Movie camera". It's aim was to show Soviet Russia as it was. It was an experiment in editing and in story telling.  Skipping ahead you also have the Cinéma Verité movement, where the camera and micro trottoir would go out into the street to interview people and find out their opinions on a variety of topics. I would be more specific but I haven't watched the film in a long time. What I do remember is the Eclair camera with "crystal" sync sound. Technological innovation freed the camera operator and sound man to continue experimenting. Today everyone has a video camera. Everyone has one on their phone as well as their photo camera. Life is constantly being documented in video form. 24hrs of video are uploaded a minute to youtube. video recording is an everyday part of life. I'm sure we will see a great diversity of moments, some births, some sailing, some rock climbing, some sporting event and more.I haven't taken a look at how long they want the finished result to be. Seesmicers have had fun with this idea already. We had hat days, we had other events, we would go out with the cameras and film. With Qik too we did this. There is nothing new about the process. There is only a far greater ease to share the material internationally and collaborate. As a side note we still remember [Pangea day](http://www.pangeaday.org/aboutPangeaDay.php), another event with the same line of thought, but where people presented finished products rather than moments.