---
title: 'Rock Climbing in Virtual Reality'
date: Fri, 13 May 2016 07:05:52 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['tech related', 'Via Ferrata', 'virtual reality']
---

Rock Climbing in Virtual Reality has an interesting future because some people are afraid of heights, others don't have the muscle tone to climb and yet more live too far away from climbing locations to enjoy the sport. Virtual reality is a great way of enabling people to get some of the sensations of rock climbing without the safety concerns. As I watched this video I was curious to see whether it was a passive experience and then noticed the playstation controller. That's a nice enough way to go "rock climbing but it it was up to me then I would pair this with the HTC Vive and it's related controllers. Ideally I would go a step further. I would develop a conveyor belt system, place it vertically and program it to put handholds where the climber has somewhere to grip. As he or she climbs they would place their weight on the hand hold and it would slide down as the person climbs. We have seen demonstrations of equipment that can emulate 3d shapes and textures. The challenge would be to take this from being flat on a table to being vertical and strong enough to hold someone's weight. Tests should be carried out on near vertical and vertical "climbing routes" before being rotated to allow for the climbing of overhanging routes. You would definitely get a workout from such a configuration. Gamers would go from their current physiognomy to being toned and healthy. The next generation of gamers are going to be fit thanks to Virtual reality workouts. This could also be attempted for sports like Via Ferrata, via cordata and others. Via Ferrata is a simplified form of rock climbing and via cordata is walking around a nice landscape where safety gear is available to keep you safe in case of a slip or fall whilst hiking. I really look forward to when this gaming/fitness training experience comes of age.