---
title: 'Rocspot and Indoor Climbing'
date: 
draft: true
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

If you are looking to climb then [Rocspot](https://www.grimper.ch/salles-descalade/lausanne-rocspot/) and Indoor Climbing go well together. This climbing center presents you with walls that are 13 meters high. At this climbing center a few minutes from Lausanne you can practice bouldering and climbing. There are two "rooms" so to speak. The first room presents you with climbing routes with self-belay systems where you hook your harness to the system and start climbing. This is a great way to warm up while waiting for other members from your climbing group. It allows you to try routes varying from 4B up to 6a+.   If you have your own belay equipment but no rope you have the option of using ropes that have already been set up. You can hook yourself up and when the belayer is ready you can start the climb. This system is practical to learn how to belay properly. It is also an opportunity for people to practice climbing various grades. When you are comfortable with these routes you can move to the second room. The second room is ideal to learn how to "lead climb". Lead climbing is new to me and this is what I practiced on Sunday. The sensation is different because you have to hook the rope in as you progress. This means that if you fall then you will fall to the last point where you last hooked in. I found the experience more tiring as it adds an increased level of stress. Belaying someone who lead climbs is also an interesting skill to learn because you have the paradox of providing people with enough rope to progress but not so much that if they fall they hit the ground. This is a skill that I am still learning and I expect that within a short amount of time I will develop the right habits and reflexes. They rent, harnesses and shoes for those who do not have this equipment and you can buy 15 entrances or more at once. You also have a [diversity of courses](https://www.grimper.ch/ecole-descalade/lausanne-rocspot/) to choose from to learn climbing skills properly. Of the climbing gyms that I have tried in the Canton of Vaud and Geneva, this is the best one. I really want to try the overhanging routes because they look fun and challenging. They vary from 5C to 8 or 9. One aspect that I really enjoy is watching people get to the top and fall. Sometimes you see the belayer get lifted from the ground and then lower themselves back down. It is also fun to see the climber swing as they are lowered back to the ground. My aim in going to this climbing gym is to develop the muscles and techniques that will make Via Ferrata when I am climbing outdoors as well as to learn the skills to climb on rock. Climbing provides a full body workout and the more we train over the winter, the easier the spring and summer climbs will be.