---
title: 'Spy-cam wildlife filmmaking'
date: Sun, 17 Apr 2016 15:12:29 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Documentary', 'environmentalism', 'observation', 'Via Ferrata', 'vimeo']
---

Spy-cam wildlife filmmaking is an interesting discipline. It builds upon the decades of innovation that the documentary film genre has built upon. From the earliest images by the Lumière brothers of the workers at a factory to the development of film editing by Eisenstein and Dziva Vertov demonstrated by "The Man With the Movie Camera to sync sound with the Crystal sound system used by Jean Rouch for Chronique d'un été. The BBC is seen as the leading example of high quality television programming and this has been the case for decades. The Natural History Unit is responsible for some of the best wildlife documentary films and series and with good reason. They adopt the latest technology, hire crews for months or even years at a time, to capture nature's spectacle and beauty, and bring it to living rooms around the world. [Sensory: BBC Wildlife Director John Downer & the technology of 'spy-cam' filmmaking](https://vimeo.com/102514372) from [Getty Images](https://vimeo.com/gettyimages) on [Vimeo](https://vimeo.com). This attention to detail and this dedication to getting the best images has resulted in some of the best looking documentaries around. the Blue Planet Series, the Planet Earth series, Life and others have provided people with what I like to call a video encyclopaedia of the natural world. The technological innovation that we see in the video above demonstrates how animals and behaviour that we had seen through a tele-lens can now be seen up close and with as natural a behaviour as possible. Almost every book I have read about the documentary genre speaks about capturing life with as little alteration of natural behaviour as possible. This technology is making that wish a more realistic goal.