---
title: 'The Cult of the Amateur - thoughts on the book'
date: Mon, 06 Aug 2007 01:11:39 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['book', 'book review', 'commentary', 'Post-university life', 'reviews', 'tech related', 'The Cult of the Amateur']
---

When I heard with what hate one podcaster talked about the [Cult Of The Amateur](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0385520808/ref=as_li_qf_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=richardazia-20&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=0385520808&linkId=cfe84fac71a8d5976c5331e0c2400b02) I told myself that I should read this book because it addresses a question that is at least two hundred years old, mainly the difference between high culture and low culture. High culture is seen as everything that has taken research and thought to create whilst popular culture is anything else. High culture might be a painting displayed in a museum whilst popular culture is something that most people could succeed in doing themselves. The book begins with the idea that an infinite amount of monkeys can produce the work of Shakespeare given enough time. The fact they may write Shakespeare is not the problem. Andrew Keen, the author is more worried by all the uninteresting, inaccurate content that is produced and how easily it is spread. He is worried that as websites like myspace and youtube become more popular so the level of the product is degraded. He sees this as having a negative effect on culture. He works from the premise that, back around 1999, when he was part of the first internet boom he had the idea that the World Wide Web would help distribute great works of art and culture, from [Tchaikovsky](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyotr_Ilyich_Tchaikovsky) to [Stendhal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stendhal) and others. He was disappointed that at a [Friend of O'reilly'](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foo_Camp)s meeting people were concentrating on user-generated content rather than high culture. That is one part of the story. Another of his concerns is that people are writing about topics they know little or nothing about and as a result are spreading disinformation. He looks at a few examples in politics and current affairs to show how there are some failings within the new media landscape. This made me think of how important the university would become. If everyone is a writer/editor and publisher so it would make sense that they train to become experts in their chosen field. Anyone can write and share their knowledge but that is no reason for the work to be sloppy. Look at the [Roman section](http://www.main-vision.com/richard/romans.html) of my website. I wrote it ten years ago when I wanted to write down everything I knew about [the Romans](http://www.main-vision.com/richard/romans.html) and within a short time it had been formatted for the web. Over the years people found the site and found that the information was useful therefore they referenced it. As a result of this, I became a resource for school children worldwide. I had no credentials. I was an IGCSE and then IB student as I worked on various parts. Finally, ten years later I've graduated, and through learning the academic process the value of the content I produce has improved. I have gained slightly in authority. When I listen to people speak about the media and how it works I have familiarity with two hundred years of technological progress therefore I am familiar with some of the "old media" and how they influenced popular and media culture. As a result of my studies, I found myself disagreeing with one podcaster and how he expressed anger against Andrew Keen and ["The cult of The Amateur"](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/1857883934?ie=UTF8&tag=perspectraveland&linkCode=as2&camp=2506&creative=9310&creativeASIN=1857883934). Such views should not be expressed. One aspect that is of particular interest to all those that I have studied with and myself is that of the amateur as a producer of content. When you have six thousand people who are writing about specific themes for free where is the demand for the professional author or content producer. He takes the example of advertising and how because amateurs want their content to be seen, offer this to advertising firms. As a result advertising firms save a lot of money. Personally I believe that this is a trend that is popular because of how cheap the means of production have become but that within a number of years the passion for users generating their own content may disappear. As more and more hobbyists and amateurs produce media content so the role of the professional becomes more uncertain. Why spend years studying at university to be a media producer or journalist if a construction worker is making films in his free time for no money and distributing it to a global audience? It's an interesting time to work in the media because of how affordable technology has become. I have everything it takes to create and distribute video comfort from the place where I am living in London. As long as I get a good documentary idea I can carry out every stage of the production process without going through the production companies. As a result of this, I have complete editorial control. Andrew Keen is getting us to pay attention to questions that it is essential we answer. Who is our audience, how are they getting our content, how reliable is it and how can we sustain ourselves to continue doing what we enjoy?