---
title: 'The Ten Thousand Word Project'
date: Sat, 14 Apr 2007 10:20:58 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['dissertation', 'Holidays', 'media studies', 'progress', 'ten thousand words', 'university', 'word goal']
---

Yesterday I woke up and within half an hour started working on my dissertation. For a few minutes, I added one or two more paragraphs of text before going on a search for interviews. I looked up Cousteau and arrived at the INA page. The INA is the french video archive online. It's there that I found a quote from Jacques Yves Cousteau during the 1956 Cannes Film festival where he was talking about his documentaries. There are three elements that are perfect for the purpose of my dissertation therefore I am happy to have found that resource. It's made me feel more relaxed. Add to this the fact that I'm up to 5800 words and you'll understand that this current state of affairs is quite pleasant. I need to write almost four thousand more words by Sunday to be on track with my own project. We'll see whether I achieve this goal. I have heard from a friend that some idiots are getting so stressed about the dissertation that they going to doctors to get medication to calm them down and this goes against all logic. If your dissertation is stressing you then there's one key element that will calm you down: Do your work!! Why are the doctors giving people drugs to calm them down when it's a psychological problem because they're too idiotic to relax in a logical way. The doctors are stupid for giving the medication and those taking drugs are idiots for taking them. Rather than give people drugs why not give them time management lessons instead. That's the real issue. Anyway, my dissertation is going well and if I reach my target of 10,000 words by Sunday evening then I will have three weeks of revision to go through. I will see whether I can meet my module leader for one last time as soon as the April Holidays are finished to make sure that the content is correct. I want to do well so I might as well put in as much time as I can to get it finished on time and to the highest standard possible. That's why I'm procrastinating through the process of blogging ;)