---
title: 'The aftermath of a night''s activities'
date: Tue, 13 Feb 2007 03:11:57 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['education', 'fees', 'random', 'student life', 'subsidisation', 'university', 'university']
---

In continental Europe there are a lot of people who go out and enjoy a glass or two over dinner and have a long conversation about a great variety of topics which they enjoy. In other parts of the world, for example, England you'll find that the volume of night clubs has deafened the night revelers to go home speaking far louder than would otherwise be socially acceptable. England is an extremely generous country in terms of educational subsidisation. Whereas the English only pay £1200 pounds per year for their tuition fees in America it's up to 30,000 dollars a year. What this means is that the English student is rich. If I work one month in Switzerland and save that money I could pay the tuition fee. If I work for three or four I could live for half a year in rented accommodation. This would lead you to believe that going out for a meal and living in relative luxury would be an integral part of student life in England but this is not so. A lot of time and energy is spent on encouraging people to spend money and time on drinking. If you're a student in England how many times have you been invited out to dinner. How many times have people suggested social activities other than drinking to you? Tomorrow you'll find that a large portion of those living in halls will be hungover from the amount they spent at the bar. I've heard a rumour that in some uni bars they can make up several grand in one night. If that's true then it's really depressing. It's depressing because if that's what they make in one night then what money is left for more enjoyable pursuits are left for the rest of the week? Will some people go to the cinema or go out to dinner? How many of these students spend a week a month broke with hardly anything left for food because of their single night of excessive drinking? It's a serious problem in the whole of England and it should be addressed. Doing it once every few weeks is fine, and for special occasions. Doing it every week is counterproductive. Are universities not pushing students enough and that's why they're so willing to drink to excess? What if they had to wake at 6 am and be in lectures by 8 am and out by 6 pm to do some research till 10 pm and sleep 6hrs? In summary, I don't care what people do in their free time as long as they don't keep me up in their inebriated state.