---
title: 'The drive home - My 400th post'
date: Wed, 05 Mar 2008 10:32:48 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['journey', 'London', 'London', 'Post-university life', 'roadtrip', 'transition', 'travel', 'travel', 'university', 'work']
---

Last night's drive was amazing. It's just the type of drive you want to have. It starts in the middle of the afternoon as a friend helps you load the car and you set off for a 900 kilometer drive. At the beginning you have to deal with London traffic/congestion. After this you've got part of the m20 that's closed so you need to take a slip road.Â As I got into France I was welcomed by a lot of snow coming straight at me, like the windows screensaver from a decade ago. That meant I couldn't really drive as fast as I wanted. Still made good time. For most of the journey the road was fine.The part I really loved is when I got off the motorway to go via the Jura. At this point it wasn't snowing too much but as I progressed up the slopes and let the Garmin Nuvi 250 guide me along the path so I saw a little snow, and it started to stick. As I drove I had to stay awake and battle with the ever present threat of loss of adherence. That was the fun part of the drive. The road was covered in a thin layer of snow and people were driving more slowly. At moments I was chasing a snowplow across the mountains as it was salting the roads.At other moments there was no snow plow and I lost traction two or three times but kept the car in control. I occasionaly thought that I wouldn't make it up the hills but I did, and I loved the view. The trees were covered in snow and they were lit by the grand phare. It's memories from childhood. I'm glad I've spent so much time playing in car parks covered in snow to learn how the car behaved.At five in the morning the last thing you want to learn is how to drive in snow. Luckily I do.It made a nice transition from the student life I've been living over the past three years and the job seeking following that. I wanted the drive to be a transition from one phase in my life to the next. Now I'm Â an employed graduate who's working in Switzerland as of next Monday. This next chapter of my life should be fun. Â