---
title: 'Vanity fair is wrong to label Zuck as the top disruptor'
date: Wed, 09 Sep 2015 10:34:03 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['facebook', 'social media', 'Social Media Deontology', 'social media living room', 'twitter']
---

[Zuckerberg Tops Vanity Fair's 2015 List of Disruptors](http://www.inc.com/tess-townsend/vanity-fair-2015-disruptors.html?cid=+sf01003) Every successful social network first establishes a friendship network where a tight knit group of people interact with each other on a very frequent basis. In the case of facebook it was uni friends interacting with uni friends from the same campus. On twitter it was people in the same time zone conversing with people in the same city as themselves. It eventually led to face to face meetings and a new network of recognised friends. The same can be said of Seesmic when it was about "Join the Video conversation". Notice my avatar... It's the seesmic racoon. :-) Zuck wasn't a disruptor or genius so much as the right person in the right place at the right time. Nothing he did was innovative. He just packaged it effectively. As a side note I have noticed that over a number of years the social aspect of twitter has suffered. It no longer feels like a social social network. it feels more like Google Reader. it's amusing to see how social networks evolve and revolve from one type of network to another depending on what people want- [Mark Zuckerberg Tops the 2015 New Establishment List—and Snags the October Cover!](http://www.inc.com/tess-townsend/vanity-fair-2015-disruptors.html?cid=+sf01003) I remember when there were dozens of RSS aggregators for the sharing and distribution of blog articles. Over time traditional sources used the same technology. Google Reader and Google News became good sources for getting news stories and information. Facebook and twitter, social networks, decided that conversations were a waste of time and so encouraged their networks to be used as news aggregators. Recently Facebook reached the billion user daily mark. Amusingly this happened when the social network is at it's weakest. It's Unique Selling Point, connecting friends, has been lost. I went back to blogging because I grew tired of the rubbish being shared on twitter, facebook and other social networks. For years I insisted that social networks were a great way of meeting new friends and finding new business opportunities but as everyone overdid it with followers so the conversation and personal connections decreased. In the article they state that "Facebook chairman and C.E.O.**Mark Zuckerberg** has struck deals with _The New York Times_and BuzzFeed to publish articles directly into users’ pages." I don't go to facebook for news. I use the NYtimes app, I use Google News, I use news360, scoopinion and other applications. I use the applications because I found the condescending and sensationalist tone used by facebook marketers was offensive. We are a generation of university graduates on a university social network being treated as if we were primary school students. I don't appreciate it. I also don't appreciate the multiple posting of the same articles and tweets in timelines both on twitter and facebook. In theory twitter is an app that you keep open and monitor throughout the day. If something has to be posted several times then congrats on having such a disengaged audience. ;-).