---
title: 'Why It''s Great To Be A Student'
date: Sun, 18 Mar 2007 21:37:39 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['dissertation', 'getting things done', 'goals', 'process', 'random', 'university', 'work']
---

One of the best things about being a student is that you can work on projects without having to feel bad about not making any money. In particular, I'm thinking of the dissertation. It's a point where you've got ten thousand words to write about subjects you love. As you've got to do so much research you've got a reason to buy tens of books and DVDs and watch them, enjoying every minute and taking the occasional note. As you progress and you start writing you're there, being your own boss. You develop your structure and you see what you've achieved. You think about what is already said and what else must be written. You write it down, re-write it. You find there's some information missing so you've got an excuse to get sidetrack to look for some in-depth material about that. You come back to the original text and you've just added 200 words. paf. Done, great. My project has progressed ;). Of course, the more time you give yourself the more fun the project will be. If you give yourself ten weeks then you've got lots of time so it'll be lots of fun because you can sidetrack all the time. if you've got 6 weeks you're under pressure but not quite in the same way. If you've got four weeks you may have to be very disciplined. If you've got two weeks then forget about sleep, about friends, about sunshine and everything else. You've got to plod along and distractions will destroy your chances. Anyway, I want to get the writing part done by the beginning of April so that I have four weeks to edit. Editing can be quite amusing when you've got time. Enough procrastinating, time to go back for five minutes before the next distraction comes along