---
title: '17 After the Event- Carrying the Conversation Forward'
date: Sat, 22 Sep 2007 21:17:44 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Brogan 100', 'PodcampUK', 'Post-university life', 'social networking', 'tech related', 'twitter']
---

There are two key events I have been to since the beginning of summer. These are PodcampUK and the Twitter Meetup. Both of these events have been followed up by a continuing collaboration between participants. The first event was the London twitter meetup. I went there knowing just two participants, Sizemore and Jess. Over the night I would end up with interviews with quite a few members of the London twitter community but nothing much would be done with this footage as a result of not having known that I would be doing these interviews. It meant collaborating with Jess and getting an edit ready in the hope that GETV would use it. They didn't so that was slightly dissapointing. I met another individual. Nik Butler of Loudmouthman.com. Following on from a good conversation on the twitter meetup night we decided that we would collaborate on other projects. One of these is ongoing, Twittervox. Twittervox is a weekly roundup of the week's twitter news in review. It's had over 2600 views over that time with up to four live participants at once around the world ranging from the US to different parts of Europe. That project has been featured by Operator 11 on a number of occasions which I would like to believe is testament to it's good content. Twittervox is also of note because it introduced me to Phil Campbell and his work. Since this was a few weeks before Podcamp UK it meant that I would know at least two members of the conference. At Podcamp UK I got to meet quite a few of those who are part of the British podcasting landscape, from teachers to academics, broadcast professionals and hobbyists. This broad range of people would lead on to more projects. There were some interesting conversations and presentations which brought me some new ways of seeing certain aspects of the podcasting stream of content creation. It would make me think of podcasting as the equivalent of Amateur sports in relation to it's "threat to broadcasting." Within a week I was sitting at the Frontline Club listening to Andrew Keen but that was written abo I'm glad I met Documentally whilst at Podcamp because of possible future collaborations we may work on in the near future. As of yet nothing is set in stone but already I've met him a few times to work on three or four projects which you can find on his website and on a number of video sharing websites already. From what I've described above what I've found is that the conversations from events are leading onto some interesting projects and that it's been a good transition from the student life into the professional one. It's been a great opportunity to meet some interesting people and through blogs, twitter and meetings in the real world the conversation is as healthy as ever. I feel I've gained from these events and their aftermath and look forward to participating to many more in the weeks and months to come.