---
title: 'Excess Use of Network'
date: Sun, 22 Apr 2007 10:53:15 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['bandwidth', 'ISP', 'network', 'tech related', 'university']
---

_Here is my daily good morning message from the ISP: Yesterday you exceeded the **daily usage limit of 500MB** as referred to in our Terms and Conditions. This type of activity could have a **detrimental affect on our network** **unfortunately be forced to downgrade your service to a throughput limit of 56Kbs dial-up speed, for a period of 5 days**._ I download over a gig a day when I'm at home on average, that's 30 gigs a months or more. Detrimental effect on our network: What about every time you cut me off for no reason, what about the interruption of service when I get beyond the number of hours allocated p0er month. What about the fact I have over 20 gigs of data transfer but can't use it? Limit to 56K, It's already limited to that speed. _If you exceed these limits on a regular basis, we **may be forced to suspend your account**. So interruption of service for no reason isn't an interruption of service?_ _**For users of Peer-to-peer (P2P) applications such as BearShare, Warez, Morpheus, BitTorrent, iMesh and KaZaA note the following**:_ Why not stop whining about this and block those services rather than destroy the rest of the services _Most P2P applications you install will usually be configured so other users can access your hard drive and share your files all of the time. This constant file transfer can degrade your computer’s performance and generate heavy traffic loads on the network, making it difficult for other users of the network to work well. The network is a shared resource and we all must use it responsibly._ _**Network bandwidth consumption is monitored. If your usage could possibly impact the overall performance of the network, your computer may be blocked until the situation can be discussed.**_ One gig a day is nothing. Two nights ago I downloaded over two gigs of podcasts within an hour without any problems suffered by the University infrastructure therefore why can't these people cope. If they're going to block internet access from my machine then that's a Denial of servic although not an attack. Just sub standard. _Should you have any queries regarding this email, please contact Customer Services_ _Context and analysis_ Diggnation is 120 megabytes per program and Nouvo by the TSR is around 80-120 megs as well. The BBC's daily news is around 20 megabytes. This week in tech, this week in media and others are around 20 megabytes each. Diggnation =1/5 of my daily allowance, nouvo = 1/5 as well. Twim etc are a little less but quickly saturate the amount allocated per day. What's more interesting is that they currently have at least 7 fibres for 100 people. If the Cern were using those fibers it would be the equivalent of at least 3.6 gigabits per second, as was tested at the 2003 Telecom world event. 7 fibers = 7 gigabits per second, at least theoretically. For 640 users that would be 10 megabits per second. compare that to the 50KB/s and you see why I'm dissatisfied with the service.