---
title: 'Enjoy the stairs'
date: Sat, 27 Jan 2007 17:13:02 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['fancy dresss', 'french-speaking', 'friends', 'myspace', 'random', 'student life', 'studies', 'university']
---

Myspace was used to advertise a pyjama house party and I went for a number of hours. It's amusing when you're at a party in your pyjamas. It makes a change from all those fancy dress and I began wondering about the walk of shame and whether wearing pyjamas on the way home constitutes the walk of shame. The party was good although it did not really begin till later on when everyone arrived. There were lots of people I've known for two to three years by now. The stories were good and the conversations too. Some were interesting whilst were some left you a little confused. I went to central London with one friend and we stayed in a night club till the first tube in the morning. The club was quite full of people because the top musical act of the week had played there an hour or two before we arrived. I don't know the group so I'm left indifferent. This part of the night continued till the early hours of the morning. We caught the first tube home. I gathered my stuff from the friend's place. Two people were sitting in the stairwell chatting, saying that they had not gone to sleep but that everyone else was trying to sleep. I encouraged them to enjoy their stairwell before continuing on my way. Back to halls where I encountered some french-speaking friends. Conversations and random activities continued until around 7 in the morning. It had been an 11hr night/party for me and I'm surprised at how quiet everything is today. It must be the calm after the chaos of a good night out.