---
title: 'I''m Almost Done With Uni'
date: Wed, 02 May 2007 00:25:06 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['dissertation', 'final days', 'media studies', 'student life', 'university']
---

I'm almost done with uni but it's so hard. I've been working on and off on three projects now for at least three weeks and I've spent so much time on these projects that today I finally met my saturation point so I left the computer behind and dropped down to the bar for a drink or two and for company. There were only a few people watching a football match and no media students from my year. They don't have the luxury I have, of being able to leave everything for an hour or two before coming back to it and I do. I took one of the booths and sat there thinking of nothing and doing nothing. It was nice to do nothing but rest, the only sound was football and then some music. When I went outside a very amusing conversation was to be listened to and I laughed, feeling the pressure decline at last and being more sedate once more. It's so great to think that in a week I'm done, that I have complete freedom. I can't wait and I could get it within three or four days if I work really hard. I'm no longer worried about the calendar, no longer worried about the deadline, no longer unable to say dissertation without feeling a sudden excess of stress. Instead, I'm calm, relaxed and it's really nice. I just can't get to writing anymore. I'm going to have to re-write my conclusion taking the main points from my analysis and making sure that it's clear and concise, a paragraph per point, and a summary for the conclusion. That's the results and conclusion that I'm talking about. Long live the end, the end of my academic workload, and the beginning of adulthood once more. Three years in the making.