---
title: 'My Dislike Of Cleaners'
date: Wed, 18 Apr 2007 12:09:27 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['cleaners', 'frustration', 'laundry', 'student life', 'university']
---

Several times I have had to clean the exterior of Airbus 320 and similiarly sized aircraft. You get some really long brushes and firehoses and you spray the plane before you clean it. it's hard physical work and it's done between midnight and five am. It's not a pleasant job. Now that you know the type of cleaning I've done I want to express my deep dislike of cleaners and why. Every single day they pass in the halls and bang around, speaking at the top of their voices when students are in need of sleep. We're also in need of a feeling of privacy in the form of silence. Every time some idiot walks by talking loud it's annoying. Then you've got the blocked doors and rooms. They've been polishing every floor over the past week so that when everyone who's had the luxury of going home over the holiday comes home to a clean building. I have to put up with the chemical smells and the blocked paths. Imagine going to a door and waiting for three or four people to finish their work. Others polish the floor and you have to go another way. Today I'm angry because of the cleaners. They decided to polish the floor whilst I'm doing my laundry. The clothes have finished being washed and they're currently waiting to go into the dryer but that can't happen until the floor dries, in two hours. Why can't they carry a warning, why can't they do it at the time when the laundry room is closed. It annoys me that everything has too be done during the day when it's most inconvenient rather than at night when out of service. I hate the 9 to 5 mentality whereby convenience is destroyed for the everyday user. Why today, why now? Tired of communal life.