---
title: 'On being directed'
date: Sat, 02 Dec 2006 00:07:35 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['directing', 'production', 'studies', 'television production', 'university', 'video production']
---

Being directed is often a good thing. It helps you achieve the tasks you are meant to achieve within a certain amount of time. Other times it helps you learn something useful. In occasional cases, though direction is one of the most frustrating things in the world. I have spent many hours standing over the past three days being directed by someone who had not taken enough time with multicamera directing theory books or taken the time to familiarise himself with the theoretical aspect. You'd expect most people who direct to watch others carry out such tasks, as I have with video editors for example. You'd also expect individuals to take the time to understand what shots can be achieved with which cameras. Over the past few days though I have seen an individual with the lack of skill to direct a team of people for a multicamera event. Among the flaws were: lack of clarity, both in ideas and direction, lack of direction - for onscreen talent, too slow resulting in people being bored, etc. One flaw I have seen from a number of directors is that they concentrate too much on the shots they would like to have without actually looking at what's going on through the three cameras already in place, often missing one shot. Don't stop a take just because your vision mixed the wrong camera at the wrong time. Keep it going and see whether any more of the production can be salvaged. I'm glad that the task is completed. Now it's up to me to make it work in post-production.