---
title: 'On reaching 100 dives'
date: Tue, 05 Mar 2013 09:26:44 +0000
draft: true
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

Back in 1999, with family, we went to the island of Martinique. On a whim we decided to try scuba diving. The waters there are warm and tropical. The beaches are sandy and the experience is pleasant. From the beach we kitted up for the try dive. It's during this try dive that I found out that salt water no longer stung my eyes. A year or two later, when I was in the South West of England I decided that I was bored of always doing the same thing so looked in to scuba diving. This was in November, despite the cold, despite the weather, despite the low visibility. I wanted to do my advanced open water certification, converting from CMAS \* to PADI AOWD. Due to the weather conditions they through in the Dry Suit speciality. We managed to do three dives in November. It was only after the dives and as I got home that I realised how frozen I was. I would shiver for three or four hours after the dive. It would take another four or five months before I would complete my AOWD and dry suit course. I did notice how much more relaxed I was in spring than I had been in the depths of winter. During this time I started work on two diving documentaries of which one was completed and led to the second one. For about ten years I did not dive at all. This was due to my status as a student and the fact that I was between Switzerland and London. It was only while working in my last job that I had the income and the opportunity to start diving again. I found the Glocals Dive group and after a discussion or two rented some equipment to do my first dive or two in the lake. When you have dived in the English channel diving in the lake is not a big leap. Lake diving is fun because of the people you meet but also by it's accessibility. For the first dive or two you rent the equipment but as you see that the conditions are nice you begin to invest. You invest in the BCD, the semi dry suit, the torch and it snowballs from there. Eventually you're diving with a dry suit, two Mares MR22T, a MARES ICON HD dive computer because the Suunto D9 a friend sold you for cheap was hard to read in such conditions. When diving here you have three main lakes. The Lac Léman, the Lac D'Annecy and finally the Lac Du Bourget. Each of these dive sites offers something different. The Lac Léman offers a dive site within easy driving distance from work at the Hérmance dive site. The Rivaz dive site offers you a beautiful view on the vineyards as you surface after a wall dive. The Lac du Bourget offers both a nice landscape at the surface as well as an interesting wall dive. The serious dive starts at around 30 meters but the bottom of the wall is at around 64.5 meters. This last dive site is for experienced divers. The Glocals dive group is a pleasant group of people whom I meet almost every week, on Thursdays for discussions of future dives and on Sunday to do the diving. People often come on Thursday to discuss diving around here but when it comes to actually diving they are usually not that active. Out of 300 members in the group we have a core of about 10 divers of which three to five of us dive whether in winter or summer. Diving in summer is pleasant. In summer you're warm, the ambiance is that of holidays, and you're happy to get in the water to cool down. Sometimes we have barbecues. In summer the water ranges from 21°c at the surface down to 5°c at depth. As you go down you get colder but as soon as you head back up you get back in to the warm waters. Once the warm water actually felt unpleasant. Winter is quite different. Snow is on the ground, the wind is cold and ice has formed on the rocks as we head in to the water. Two of us drive in dry suits with wet gloves and by the end of the dive our hands are very cold. In winter there is no thermocline from the surface down to depth.