---
title: 'On Smoke Filled Kitchens'
date: Wed, 14 Feb 2007 12:31:06 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['chicken', 'cooking', 'fire safety', 'kitchen', 'random', 'smoke', 'university']
---

Last night I was sitting in my room surfing the web and thinking about a variety of things when I could smell burned so i checked the heater. Cold. Visual inspection of my room, nothing apparently a problem. I decide to go outside my bedroom towards the kitchen and open the door. Oh fuck, the room was filled with a dense smoke and a pot was on the hob. I rushed to the window and opened it to disperse the smoke. I then moved the pan from the hot hob to a cool one, turned off the power to the unit and opened the second window. once that was done I opened the kitchen door and the flat door to create a draft that would take the smoke out of the kitchen. It worked. I checked the pan and poured water into it. Some idiot had left two chicken legs to cook without keeping an eye on. If I haden't gone to investigate the fire alarm might have gone off and flames may have made this more serious than it was. I really want to say that I believe at least one of my flat mates to be an absolute idiot for doing something so stupid but I'm afraid that individual will read what I wrote. Apparently it's not unusual for kitchens to be found extremely warm because students had left the hobs on overnight. Most probable cause, after reading certain threads on facebook would be drunk students. They think they're sober enough to cook something so they heat the hobs and start to cook, decide to nap for ten minutes and fall asleep. At least the only damage is to the pan and two chicken legs. No one was harmed, no going off of the fire alarm and no material damage to university property. Happy Valentine's