---
title: 'Paléo Trafic - enjoying the view from La Barillette.'
date: Thu, 21 Jul 2016 09:45:20 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

Most people think of the concerts, the food, the alcohol and the social aspects of Paléo Festival. If you are one of the collaborateurs (sounds Cold Warish doesn't it?) then Paléo is about sleep deprivation, roasting in a tent, sleeping under trees, eating with others and occasionally doing the task that you are collaborating on. I decided to look at Paléo Trafic this time. I have spent at least ten hours standing at la Barillette over the last two days filming the Paléo Festival terrain. In that time I have looked at the landscape, photographed the landscape and talked with people up there. During this time the camera has captured the crowds of people walking from the train stop to Paléo, the cars driving from Nyon and tractors harvesting crops in the background. In effect I have captured life in summer. I have been lucky over the last two days because the weather and visibility has been excellent. We can see really see everything at the moment. You can see the valleys on the French side, you can see the Cervin, the Dents du Midi, the Mont Blanc, Lausanne and more. If you spend as much time as me enjoying this landscape then you can see places you have been to in person from afar. \[gallery columns="4" ids="3162,3163,3164,3165,3166,3168,3169,3170,3171,3172,3173,3174"\] If you want to get to La Barillette and enjoy the views in person then follow [this link](https://www.google.ch/maps/dir//La+Barillette,+1276+Gingins/@46.430556,6.1239223,17z/data=!4m16!1m7!3m6!1s0x478c594b3cfdf495:0xfe7b4508c8779bf2!2sLa+Barillette!3b1!8m2!3d46.430556!4d6.126111!4m7!1m0!1m5!1m1!1s0x478c594b3cfdf495:0xfe7b4508c8779bf2!2m2!1d6.126111!2d46.430556)