---
title: 'People love photographs'
date: Mon, 12 Mar 2007 18:34:51 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['opinions', 'people', 'photographs', 'random', 'reactions', 'university', 'Video']
---

Video is one of those mediums that is great because it captures several moments and amalgamates them into a sequence. Those moments are with the voices and sounds, the excitement, and more. It's too much information for most and that's why video is a hard medium to use at parties. The more impersonal a video the better it works, within the realms of you being at the event with your friends. In contrast, photography is far better accepted. People have been using for photographs since before they comprehended what that box with a big piece of glass actually does. As a result, they were desensitized to being photographed. There are no objections and by the time they realize you've taken their picture objection is futile. With video, you point the camera and watch from a distance. It's not because you're a stalker or a voyeur but rather because that is the nature of cinéma verité - Kino Glaz. How can someone be comfortable when they know that what you're doing is getting a precise recording of both their conversation and expressions. It makes them uncomfortable. It makes me uncomfortable. That's why the camera points up as soon as people realise they are being filmed. it's my signal that I know that they don't want to be filmed anymore and I move on. Over time people are desensitised to this "invasion" of privacy and there are occasional video lovers. Theatrical people are one example. During the last two years of High school every night, I would go down and shoot their theatre performances and they'd buy the tape from me. of course, I almost got in trouble with their lecturer but I was not breaching copyright. I was providing them with a visual record of their activities. Performers also enjoy having copies of their work. Ingyama a few years ago, Anarachic hand and of course last year's first-year music students. It's a way for them to show the world what they have produced. Sometimes it's not good so they prefer to forget about it but when it's good they're happy and post it on their websites, whether myspace or specific domain names. The World Wide Web and the network of networks are not ready for the proper sharing of video at the moment. It's fine for three or four-minute segments but any longer and you'll find your audience disappearing. That's because internet service providers aren't always giving their customers enough bandwidth. In other cases, it's just that it's boring. The Silent Disco was really well received within a small community in part because it's anonymous but also because it's made up of good memories for them. it's good memories for me too by the way. My collection of undercroft pictures ended in October and I want it to continue. we're in March now.