---
title: 'Sharing Videos With Facebook'
date: Mon, 18 Jun 2007 08:20:15 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['facebook', 'Holidays', 'Post-university life', 'summer holidays', 'tech related', 'Video', 'video content']
---

Through technology such as that available on Facebook, video sharing has become quite a bit easier. Whereas on a website like youtube where you share video footage with the world on Facebook you select who you share your videos with. There are three settings, share with everyone on your network, including all friends, share with everyone who is tagged in the videos and their friends, or simply restrict it to your friends. I particularly like the option to share between your friends and the friends of tagged friends because it's so flexible. we don't have the same friends so it's a good method by which to distribute videos, best of all it's free. Another feature that's interesting is key frames. You can cycle through up to ten screenshots of your video and find the frame you feel is best suited to illustrate the video. It's as easy to select a frame as to when you're sharing a website with your network. I have run into a number of limitations. The video must be under ten minutes in duration and 200 megabytes in size. Keep in mind that the video will be converted to the FLV format which can be read on almost all browsers. I've uploaded seven videos already and so far the interface has behaved well. I managed to upload a 50+ megabyte video but due to its length being too long the software complained. I also tried to upload an iPod format video and it complained as well so that's something I think they should work on. It's not going to replace the broadcast machine interface I've installed on my website but it's a good method by which to share amateur videos between friends and for those who would like to do it professionally to showcase some of their better work. Two additional video options are uploading by mobile phone and recording from your webcam. The recording from webcam is a feature that's interesting if you're in a public place with your laptop and you're uploading video of specific events. I'll try uploading video from the mobile phone at a future date. As I see it this is yet another strong feature that has been added to Facebook and unlike the fortune cookies, I like software and others this is something that helps promote the imagined and real communities I discussed in a recent essay. (That essay will be uploaded once it's been moderated properly). I'm going to take some time to convert and upload quite a few more videos to Facebook over the coming weeks and months.