---
title: 'The twitter is great for revolutions bandwagon'
date: Thu, 18 Jun 2009 09:44:34 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

The free flow of information has been greatly facilitated by the development of modern tools such as the smartphone, more common laptops and data plans. As a result of all these tools the control of public opinion has become more of a challenge. It's easy to block sites, but the problem is you need to be more aware of the communications systems than the users themselves. In particular I'm thinking of Iran, and another revolution before it. People are now saying that twitter is a great revolutionary tool to get information from one person to another quickly. Of course this might be true but there's a more interesting trend in progress today. This trend is how modern telecommunications tools such as the mobile phone and laptop are affecting social change. In particular think of the printing press and the role it has spread, the role of coded radio messages as well. Today it's up to the World Wide Web and it's backbone the Internet to provide a cheap, easy to hide telecommunications platform by which to keep the people informed about what is happening. Remember Thomas from the Unbearable Lightness of Being. He wrote that article and never agreed to a retraction. Now you don't need mainstream media or even a physical copy of what you're trying to distribute. Radiowaves carry these messages almost simultaneously to thousands, even millions of people at once. As a result controlling public opinion is a major challenge. Every website that has a mobile interface has potential as a revolutionary tool. Today it's twitter, because the site is not blocked by totalitarian states yet, but if that site is blocked then you've got other sites that could be used. Plurk, Jaiku and Orkut are examples of websites that have a mobile interface. The simpler the mobile website interface the more accessible the information becomes. Herein lies the real revolution. It's platform agnostic. It's that ability to create, share and distribute information on the move that is most interesting because it has built in redundancy. Within minutes of one service being blocked a clone can be put up. How do you want to stop the free flow of information in such circumstances? By being flavour of the month twitter, just like facebook, google and youtube may be blocked. The platform style however will remain and this is the most interesting aspect of the new era in electronic conversation.