---
title: 'The wait of an early adopter'
date: 
draft: true
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

I order most of the technology I want to experiment and play with from three or four main sources in Switzerland and most of the time deliveries are fast, within two or three days, for free and by post. In April of last year I heard about the Narrative 2 and liked the concept so I ordered a device. We are now about ten months later and today I saw that the device was out to be delivered so despite waking at 0730 I stayed home. I made sure that I could hear the door and that I was on the ground floor, ready to answer the door as soon as the door bell rang. At 1427 I saw a note that the device was marked as delivered except that it was to a name I did not recognise. I went to see the two neighbours I do not know, to ask whether they had received anything. Both of them have answered no. I have sent messages on Twitter, Facebook and by e-mail and neither Fedex, the carrier, or Narrative have responded to my queries. If I miss hearing the door bell and if I get a note saying "please contact us for deciding whether to re-expedite the item or pick it up at the warehouse". I call them and tell them that I will drive to them. This is what I have done a number of times before. In this scenario I am powerless. Get Narrative who took ten months just to send the package have been sloppy with keeping customers up to date with the progress. Fedex were very quick to say contact us by DM but completely silent once the DM was sent. I am telling you this because for several months I have regretted ordering the device. I also write this because I have had excellent response times from other companies and delivery companies. Some of them have called to tell me that they are on their way. Others have used the Swiss postal service which I find excellent. I want people to know about the poor quality of service I experienced because I want an apology from the company, at the very least. I also want people to be wary of ordering from this unprofessional company. If a customer trusts you do not ignore them. Treat them well. They have been so slow to deliver that other companies are now providing the same thing. As these other companies are professional I am confident that I could order from them and wait three or four days rather than ten months.