---
title: "Valentine's - a social media perspective"
date: Fri, 15 Feb 2008 21:54:43 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['fun', 'Holidays', 'seesmic', 'social media', 'social networking', 'twitter', "Valentine's", 'warzabidul']
---

Valentine's day is a day both dreaded and feared by most for two reasons, as a couple because of the pressure you're under and as a single because you're single. In the social media though it can be one of the most amusing times. My social media valentine consisted in two parts. The first on twitter and the second a net2meet (From online to offline meeting) with a fellow seesmicer. The first one was fun thanks to it's simplictiy. When you write @ username <3 it takes this to mean that you heart the other user. With [maggie](http://twitter.com/maggieconv) a fellow seesmicer we filled each other's timelines as well as that of many others with this electronic sign of affection. It was amusing to see what a good mood it put both Maggie and I in as a result. The pressure Valentine's day usually puts on people dissipated entirely. I reached my [17,000th tweet](http://twitter.com/warzabidul/statuses/712342432) yesterday and I dedicated it to all the girls I have frequently tweeted with. They're what made valentine's day so much fun. I love the idea that I have so many conversations on a daily basis. We're a community based around [twitter](http://www.twitter.com) and our love of new methods of communication. It's a good community and I'll spend many more ours there. I flew back to Switzerland and that's where I met Pioupiounette a fellow [seesmicer](http://www.seesmic.com) and within a few seconds we already felt comfortable with each other. That's because in the social media we spend so much time chatting with and seeing people that when we meet in real life we've already got a collective experience. In french it's "Un vécu commun". As a little bonus I got to see the projection room of the cinema and the reels there. It was fun to hear the whirring away of the machine, seeing two arc lights, the cinema from another angle and such. In other words it was an adventure. The socia media are a fun place to spend some time and this year was one of the most relaxed valentine's days because technology meant that I had some good friends to have an enjoyable time with. Keep in mind that Valentine's day is the day I got my driving license so whilst others celebrate love and relationships I celebrate mobility and frienships. Yesterday was a pleasure and I hope next year will be just as good.