---
title: 'Video Insider'
date: Sat, 19 Jan 2008 19:07:43 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Uncategorized']
---

I've seen a lot of people create link posts where there's no comment just links and these are not effective. They're not effective because they require the audience to click through and read the entire post to see what you thought was of interest. Instead I'm going to choose key paragraphs and link to the article. If you like the paragraph then simply click on the link and you'll get the full article within it's context. _The user-generated video content tsunami has clearly changed the shape of the online environment we live in today. In fact, the growth of UG video so far is turning the Internet into a non-interactive medium. It’s created the quagmire we’re in today because the industry is treating all online video the same — meshing UG video with professionally produced brand videos. Even if consumers want to sit back and watch a monkey juggling video online, that doesn’t mean they don’t want to lean forward when they visit Web sites to get information about that car or house they’re thinking about buying._ [Source](http://blogs.mediapost.com/video_insider/?p=140) _ I believe it’s not about gazing into a crystal ball to predict what ad format will produce the greatest CPMs. In an industry as exciting, creative and fast-moving as ours, it seems we are all becoming as distracted as the consumers we are trying to attract. But we need to remember the basic premise that advertising is communication of valuable information. And for it to be effective, we need to communicate the message multiple times in multiple ways; we especially need to recognize that every time the message needs to be a fresh exciting experience that engages and resonates with target customers, motivating them to take action. David Ogilvy once said, “What really convinces consumers to buy or not to buy is the content of your advertising, not its form.”_ [Source ](http://blogs.mediapost.com/video_insider/?p=142) _Instead, go to work tomorrow worrying about something even more important.  Rather than how many see your commercials, worry about how much time they spend with them._ [Source ](http://blogs.mediapost.com/video_insider/?p=144) Let me know whether you like this style of posting. Now to go on with traditional feedreading.