---
title: 'Wait in Terminal'
date: Mon, 05 Feb 2007 13:28:00 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['Copenhague', 'Malmo', 'sweden', 'travel', 'travel', 'university', 'weekend']
---

Wait in terminal And so the weekend came to an end. It began on Thursday with a trip around Malmo and dropping into two or three bars and a night club. Discussions were had and dancing took place. The first day was about getting back up to speed with the friend and keeping to the promise that I'd made about coming to Sweden would come to fruition. I was in the city of Malmo, across the Oresund from Copenhague, Denmark's capital. It's on the southern tip of Sweden. It's a city of around 500,000 people. We went to two bars before dropping into l'étage. A nightclub that wasn't that busy. We met a few people of which a fashion student. I was interested in what she had to say but this was cut short by the boyfriend interrupting to speak about football. The night ended early and I was exhausted. The second day was more relaxed consisting of a meal at a restaurant I had been to previously where the food was good. On the third day, we visited the city of Copenhagen. I had already been to the airport but it's nice to visit the town and notice some of the atmosphere and the architecture. There's a circular ice rink where people can come and ice skate in a square. It's some grass in the middle so it's circular. Some people were enjoying the ice. Back in Malmo we had some dinner before passing by a night club where we stayed till closing. It felt relaxed, consisting of a corridor and three rooms. One part was the restaurant, another the dancefloor and the other a room with table tennis. It lasted till three am and can't think of any conversations I flew the next day and I was writing this entry on my phone it seemed that we were chasing the sunset back to London. Those sunsets are always enjoyable and colourful.