---
title: 'What I''m reading - Kadaré''s L''Hiver de la grande Solitude'
date: Tue, 28 Aug 2007 09:49:44 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['observation', 'Post-university life', 'reviews', 'travel']
---

From friendships and the people we meet so our knowledge of authors increases. It is through English literature classes that I learned to appreciate Milan Kundera. I read all his books over a period of years. Following a conversation with an Albanian friend I heard of Ismail Kadare. He originally wrote in Albanian and French, living in Paris for many years.

The two books I have read so far are Spiritus and Les Tambours de L'automne. Both of these books are interesting in their own right. Spiritus is interesting because it's taking a look at the effect that being a listening spy can have on how you feel others perceive you. It's an eye opening book into the world of spying that is not often discussed in books. Les Tambours de L'Automne is based on a key moment in Albanian history several centuries ago. It's only near the end that you understand the title. Now I've started to read L'Hiver de la Grande Solitude and so far I'm enjoying it. It was completed in the mid 1970's and within the thirst few pages I found what I love. There is a description of a photographer and film developer who is about to retire. He was developing photographs of a personality and as he did so he noticed something different. Upon closer inspection he realised that the expression he read on the photographed person's phase was one of concern. I enjoy reading such sections because of the depth of perception that comes from books from this time period. Rather than having on a superficial level you learn about characters and their perception of the world. It is through the characters that we learn a lot about the world within which we live. Some like Sartre write more technical documents whilst skilled authors write like Camus, Kadaré and Kundera. These are the authors that bring history and a different world to life. Ismail Kadare reads better in French and finding his works can be a challenge so whenever I drop into a bookshop I look to see what they have available hoping to find one or two of his books. It's a shame that his writings are not easier to find.