---
title: 'Why I am happy that youtube is being sued'
date: Sun, 28 Jan 2007 14:34:30 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['content', 'content producer', 'deception', 'random', 'RIAA', 'sued', 'tech related', 'youtube', 'youtube']
---

I am happy that youtube is being sued because out of the hundreds of video sharing websites out there it is the most devious. It has taken hundreds of hours of content produced at great expense by teams of professionals and offered them in poor quality for nothing on their site. To make it worse it's made them billions of dollars. How can the mega corporations, through the intermediary of the RIAA give so much trouble to those who share music let allow youtube to thrive. It doesn't make sense. What about all those video sharing websites that went about making content and distributing it the right way? What about those who decided that they would provide a service at no cost to themselves. I'm speaking of those guilty of unlawful distribution of video material. It's a website about deception, look at lonelygirl, look at the coke and mentos adverts. Look at the ball in groin laughter. It's all a form of sadistic pleasure. Why would you want to be manipulated in such a way. On the positive side it was fun to see the world cup celebrations and I uploaded some video of my own in response to other people's content. When it's used as a video version of flickr it's an excellent website because it's an audiovisual window onto the world where a vast wealth of video content may be accessed. Good snowboarding, post it, good party, post it, personal work you're proud of, post it. Everyone of us is a content producer and distributor and everyone of us is challenging himself to create something that other people will enjoy. Geocities was about websies, the original sixdegrees was inspired by the film to show that everyone is related throough less than six people to everyone else. Blogging allowed people to reount their lives to anonymous audiences, flickr allowed the sharing of instants and video sharing websites allowed for the sharing of moments. Is it voyeuristic to look at online videos and photographs made by friends and random strangers and is it exhibitionist of them to show that content? Is it wrong to look at it? I would participate in this more actively were it not for the droit d'image. I don't want others posting pictures of me without my consent and I won't post pictures of others without their consent. Doesn't mean I won't keep looking. It's fun to constantly refresh the most recent pictures on flickr and see all the events that have been taking place around the world.