---
title: 'World''s biggest silent disco was small'
date: Sun, 11 Feb 2007 11:52:18 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['culture', 'flashmob', 'fun', 'London', 'Paddington', 'random', 'silent disco', 'travel', 'Video']
---

The World's "Biggest silent disco" was made up of only 200 people but they danced for over an hour to all the music they had on their ipods, mobile phones and other mp3 playing devices. It was very amusing. I arrived over an hour early and scouted out the area seeing where the event would be most likely to take place. As I did this I looked around, seeing which people were likely to participate. I saw two or three groups of friends, then some more. Around 1830 a lot of people were standing around and waiting. Within a few minutes more and more people were coming and you could see them all watching the clock. They saw the counter switch to 18:42 but it took ten to twenty seconds before people started dancing. My camera was ready and rolling as soon as 18:42 was on the clock. I was listening to my own music and was filming. I saw lot's of people start dancing and laughing. I saw some individuals synchronise their music, others shared. Some came with only small earphones whilst others came with big headphones. Some of them danced in groups. Overs danced alone and many people took photographs and video. Conga lines and waves were formed as the individuals listening to their music formed into groups of people who danced the evening away under the arches of Paddington station. I filmed for fifty seven minutes and I've got over 300 individual shots of a variety of people dancing, interviews being carried out(I can't be bothered with interviews and I didn't have a mic anyway) and more. There was a small police presence but they did not intervene until the very end when some musicians started to play. The crowd loved it though. When I started editing last night was the first glimpse of how surreal the event must have been for the by-standers watching the dancers. I can hear lot's of squeaking shoes and conversations can be heard loud and clear since there was no loud music. It's hilarious to see such an event and when it happens again I'll definitely participate in as many as I can. I've been looking at what people say about it on facebook and there are many people that I recognise from the video footage. Overall it's a great bit of random fun at a random time on a random day and it's great to see.